- [[Synopsis]]
	- This provocative volume contains a concentrated dose of Unqualified Reservations, the ultimate political Red Pill. Are you ready to escape the Matrix? Let’s see how deep the rabbit hole goes…
- [A Gentle Introduction to Unqualified Reservations](calibre://show-book/Calibre-Library/1509)  {{renderer calibreViewer, special, /#book_id=1509&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book}} {{renderer calibreHighlight, true, 2000, _, Calibre-Library, 1509, epub}}
  lastsync:: Thu Oct 03 2024 22:45:48 GMT+0100 (British Summer Time)
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/6/2/4/2[filepos314]/2/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Part 1
	  collapsed:: true
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/6/2/4/18/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} When we think about red and blue pills in the real world, obviously, we are thinking about the Orwellian mind-control state. We are not going to cure your whole brain. After the treatment, for instance, you may still be a Celtics fan. Our chemical interest is solely in the political lobe.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/6/2/4/28/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} But in 1938, three systems of government were contending for global supremacy. One of them is still around: yours. Anglo-American liberal democracy. Had military luck favored either of the others — National Socialism or Marxist-Leninism — we can also be sure that it would have discovered and reveled in its foes’ every misdeed, and that it would have approached its own, if at all, tentatively and ambiguously.
		  
		  If only one can survive, at least two must be illegitimate, and irredeemably criminal. And the survivor will certainly paint them as such. But suppose all three are irredemably criminal? If the third is an Orwellian mind-control state as well, its subjects are unlikely to regard it as such. It will certainly not prosecute itself.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/6/2/4/42/1:186%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} the government is existentially dependent on systematic public deception. If it fails in its mission to keep the lie alive, it at least stands some chance of falling.
		  
		  The basic premise of UR is that all the competing 20th-century systems of government, including the Western democracies which came out on top and which rule us to this day, are best classified as Orwellian. They maintain their legitimacy by shaping public opinion.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/6/2/4/56/1:39%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} As a good citizen of America, which is the greatest country on earth, one thing you believe in is separation of church and state. I too am an American, and it so happens that I too believe in separation of church and state. Although one might argue that my interpretation of the formula is a little different than yours.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/6/2/4/70/1:54%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} For a straw definition of church, though, let’s say a church is an organization or movement which specializes in telling people what to think. I would not inquire into this definition too closely — lest you ruin the suspense — but surely it fits Scientology, the Southern Baptists, Buddhism, etc. That’s close enough for now.
		  
		  This definition of state, separation, and church gives us three interpretations of why separation of church and state is such a good idea.
		  
		  One: our definition of church might include the stipulation that a church is an organization that distributes misinformation — ie, lies, unfalsifiable hypotheses, and other bogus truths. This sounds very sensible, because we don’t want the state to distribute misinformation.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/6/2/4/78/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Two: we might say that whether they teach the truth or not, churches are just a bad idea, period. People should think for themselves. They should not have thoughts broadcast into a little antenna in the back of the skull. Therefore, the state should separate itself from the church, just because a good state should separate itself from all evil things.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/6/2/4/82/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Three: we might believe that a government should not tell its subjects what to think. Since this is the only option I have left, it is the one I follow. I’d like to think you follow it as well.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/6/2/4/84/1:56%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} There are two kinds of government: those whose formula of legitimacy depends on popular consent, and those whose doesn’t. Following contemporary usage, we can classify these as authoritarian and democratic.
		  
		  An authoritarian state has no need to tell its subjects what to think, because it has no reason to care what they think. In a truly authoritarian government, the ruling authority relies on force, not popularity.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/6/2/4/88/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} A democratic state which tells its citizens what to think is a political solecism.
		  ie instead of decentralised thought it just centralises and singularises thought again, so it's contrary to the purpose of democracy
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/6/2/4/90/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Without separation of church and state, it is easy be for a democracy to indulge itself in arbitrarily irresponsible misgovernment, simply by telling its bishops to inform their congregations that black is white and white is black. Thus misdirected, they are easily persuaded to support counterproductive policies which they wrongly consider productive.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/6/2/4/96/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The root problem with a state church in a democratic state is that, to believe in democracy, one must believe that the levers of power terminate with the voters. But if your democracy has an effective state church, the actual levers of power pass through the voters, and go back to the church. The church teaches the voters what to think; the voters tell the politicians what to do. Naturally, it is easy for the politicians to short-circuit this process and just listen to the bishops.
		  
		  Thus the government has a closed power loop. With the church at its apex, of course. Which is exactly what we were hoping to avoid when we decided to make our state democratic, rather than authoritarian — an independent and unaccountable authority, which is in charge of everything else.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/6/2/4/102/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} This political architecture, an abortion by any standard, is commonly known as a theocracy. Oddly enough, the classic historical case of a theocracy is... wait, hang on, I’m forgetting... oh, yes! Right here, in North America. Under those strange people we call the “Puritans.”
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/6/2/4/138/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} We have stumbled, of course, into Professor Staloff’s definition. Unlike the Harvard of 1639, the Harvard of 2009 bases its authority not on the interpretation of scripture, but on some other intellectually legitimating principle like reason or rationality. Everything else is the same.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/6/2/4/142/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} But even if it is, all we are looking at is a condition we rejected earlier as unsatisfactory: a state church which teaches only the truth. Perhaps Harvard of 2009 teaches only the truth. And Harvard of 2010? 2020? We resign the answer to the tempests of academic power politics. If this is transparent and accountable, so is mud.
		  
		  The basic security hole is this word, education. Education is defined as the inculcation of correct facts and good morals. Thus an institution which is educational and secular, such as Harvard, simply becomes a “Church, which shall Teach only the Truth.” Like the Puritans of old New England, in seeking to disestablish one state church, we have established another.
		  
		  It is also hard to argue that we enjoy separation of Harvard and state. Harvard is conventionally described as a “private” university. This term is strictly nominal. Vast streams of cash flow from the taxpayer’s pocket into Harvard’s — as they do not flow to, say, the Vatican.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/6/2/4/150/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Except for a few unimportant institutions of non-mainstream religious affiliation, we simply do not see multiple, divergent, competing schools of thought within the American university system. The whole vast archipelago, though evenly speckled with a salting of contrarians, displays no factional structure whatsoever. It seems almost perfectly synchronized.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/6/2/4/154/1:76%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} the conclusion that Harvard and Stanford are synchronized because both are remoras attached, in some unthinkable way, to some great, invisible predator of the deep — perhaps even Cthulhu himself.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/6/2/4/162/1:221%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} it is one thing to say they must always agree — another to make them do so.
		  
		  No one does. And yet, they agree. Their views change over time — and they all change in the same direction, at the same rate. There is a strange self-organizing quality about this design. Does the American university system’s maintenance of broad unanimity, despite the clear absence of anything like a coordinating executive authority, make it seem less creepy to you? Or more? I’m afraid I’ll have to go with “more” on this one.
		  
		  Moreover, if we broaden our focus from the university system to the entire system of “education,” from grade schools to journalism, we see this effect again and again. What, exactly, is the “mainstream media?” If we accept the ecclesiastical metaphor, the newspaper is a perfect analogue of the church proper. It is simply the latest transmission technology for your worm’s daily or weekly security update. And here again, a coordinated message — without any central agency.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/6/2/4/180/1:125%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} On a number of subjects — not just segregation — I note that the public opinion of California in 2008 is quite similar to the public opinion of Stanford in 1963.
		  
		  This is easy to explain: in post-1945 America, the source of all new ideas is the university. Ideas check out of the university, but they hardly ever check in. Thence, they flow outward to the other arms of the educational system as a whole: the mainstream media and the public schools. Eventually they become our old friend, “public opinion.” This process is slow, happening on a generational scale, and thus the 45-year lag.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/6/2/4/190/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The triangle of professors, bureaucrats, and public opinion is stable, because the professors teach as well as advise. Of course, there is a time lag. The system experiences some strain. But it will stay together, so long as the polarity does not randomly reverse — ie, because Cthulhu decides to suddenly swim right rather than left.
		  id:: 67375da6-448a-4581-a573-9bd85604edc4
			- But no. Cthulhu may swim slowly. But he only swims left. Isn’t that interesting?
			  id:: cb73e5ea-273d-417a-afbb-b7fbfb4f869b
			- In the history of American democracy, if you take the mainstream political position (Overton Window, if you care) at time T1, and place it on the map at a later time T2, T1 is always way to the right, near the fringe or outside it. So, for instance, if you take the average segregationist voter of 1963 and let him vote in the 2008 election, he will be way out on the wacky right wing. Cthulhu has passed him by.
			- Where is the John Birch Society, now? What about the NAACP? Cthulhu swims left, and left, and left. There are a few brief periods of true reaction in American history — the post-Reconstruction era or Redemption, the Return to Normalcy of Harding, and a couple of others. But they are unusual and feeble compared to the great leftward shift.
			- Related: ((67e54685-2af2-448b-9f92-f8ca9dbf7f0f))
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/6/2/4/198/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The principle applies even in wars. In each of the following conflicts in Anglo-American history, you see a victory of left over right: the English Civil War, the so-called “Glorious Revolution,” the American Revolution, the American Civil War, World War I, and World War II. Clearly, if you want to be on the winning team, you want to start on the left side of the field.
		  
		  And we are starting to piece the puzzle together. The leftward direction is, itself, the principle of organization. In a two-party democratic system, with Whigs and Tories, Democrats and Republicans, etc, the intelligentsia is always Whig. Their party is simply the party of those who want to get ahead. It is the party of celebrities, the ultra-rich, the great and good, the flexible of conscience. Tories are always misfits, losers, or just plain stupid — sometimes all three.
		  
		  And the left is the party of the educational organs, at whose head is the press and universities. This is our 20th-century version of the established church. Here at UR, we sometimes call it the Cathedral — although it is essential to note that, unlike an ordinary organization, it has no central administrator. No, this will not make it easier to deal with.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/6/2/4/204/1:168%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} How can an entire system of independent thinkers and institutions, without any central coordinating agency, recognize that everyone should go left rather than right?
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/6/2/4/206/1:41%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} In my opinion, obviously a controversial one, the explanation for this mysterious asymmetric dimension is easy: it is political entropy. Right represents peace, order and security; left represents war, anarchy and crime.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/6/2/4/210/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} On the other hand, it is also quite easy to construct a very clean value system in which order is simply good, and chaos is simply evil. I have chosen this path. It leaves quite a capacious cavity in the back of my skull, and allows me to call myself a reactionary.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/6/2/4/214/1:37%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} My theory is that what we’re looking at is the attraction of power itself. The left attracts a natural coalition because it always attracts those whose only interest is in the pure thrill of domination. Most will join them through peer pressure alone, leaving only the misfits.
		  
		  Let’s look, for a minute, at the minds of the people who hold these positions of power. Your R1 professors, your Times reporters, and so on. These are, of course, very competitive jobs, and only a tiny minority of the people who want them and are capable of doing them will get to have them. They have certainly worked very hard to get where they are. And they perceive that effort as one made in the interest of humanity at large.
		  
		  I think the salaries at this level are reasonable, but it is not money that makes people want these jobs. It is power, which brings with it status. I define power as personal influence over important events; I don’t know of any other definition.
		  
		  One of the key reasons that intellectuals are fascinated by disorder, in my opinion, is the fact that disorder is an extreme case of complexity. And as you make the structure of authority in an organization more complex, more informal, or both — as you fragment it, eliminating hierarchical execution structures under which one individual decides and is responsible for the result, and replacing them with highly fragmented, highly consensual, and highly process-oriented structures in which ten, twenty or a hundred people can truthfully claim to have contributed to the outcome, you increase the amount of power, status, patronage, and employment produced.
		  
		  Of course, you also make the organization less efficient and effective, and you make working in it a lot less fun for everyone — you have gone from startup to Dilbert.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/6/2/4/224/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} In short: intellectuals cluster to the left, generally adopting as a social norm the principle of pas d’ennemis a gauche, pas d’amis a droit, because like everyone else they are drawn to power. The left is chaos and anarchy, and the more anarchy you have, the more power there is to go around. The more orderly a system is, the fewer people get to issue orders. The same asymmetry is why corporations and the military, whose system of hierarchical executive authority is inherently orderly, cluster to the right.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/6/2/4/236/1:91%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} our present system of government — which might be described succinctly as an atheistic theocracy
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/6/2/4/244/1:47%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The political program and perspective that we think of as progressive is, or is at least descended from, the program of a religious sect. Unsurprisingly, this sect, best known as ecumenical mainline Protestantism, is historically the most powerful form of American Christianity — and happens to be the direct, linear descendant of Professor Staloff’s Puritans
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/6/2/4/248/1:66%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} We don’t just live in something vaguely like a Puritan theocracy. We live in an actual, genuine, functioning if hardly healthy, 21st-century Puritan theocracy.
		  
		  What this means is that you can trust hardly any of your beliefs. You were educated by this system, which purports to be a truth machine but is clearly nothing of the sort. Since the US is not the Soviet Union, hard scientific facts — physics, chemistry, and biology, are unlikely to be wrong.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/6/2/4/252/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Other than that, you have no rational reason to trust anything coming out of the Cathedral — that is, the universities and press. You have no more reason to trust these institutions than you have to trust, say, the Vatican. In fact, they are motivated to mislead you in ways that the Vatican is not, because the Vatican does not have deep, murky, and self-serving connections in the Washington bureaucracy.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/6/2/4/254/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The Cathedral, with its informal union of church and state, is positioned perfectly. It has all the advantages of being a formal arm of government, and none of the disadvantages. Because it formulates public policy, it is best considered our ultimate governing organ, but it certainly bears no responsibility for the success or failure of said policy. Moreover, it gets to program the little worm that is inserted in everyone’s head, beginning at the age of five and going all the way through grad school.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/6/2/4/258/1:3%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} it is no use deciding that the solution is to be a “conservative.” It is wonderful that you’ve gotten past progressivism, but you still need the red pill. The problem is much, much older and deeper than you think. I once teased the infamous Larry Auster, proprietor of View from the Right — the Web’s most thoughtful hard-line conservative — that his blog should be called VFR1960, because he sides with the right in every conflict after 1960. Before 1960, however, VFR could be accurately renamed View from the Left. Larry, bless his soul, didn’t like that at all. But it still happens to be true.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/8/2/4/2[filepos57063]/2/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Part 2
	  collapsed:: true
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/8/2/4/8/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} And we begin the treatment. Again, our goal is to detach you — by “you,” of course, I mean only the endogenous neural tissue — from the annelid parasite which now occupies a significant percentage of your cranium, and of course is fully integrated with your soul.
		  
		  This worm goes by many a name, but today we’ll just call it democracy.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/8/2/4/16/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} What we’re going to do is to replace your perspective of a major historical event, one which you have never considered controversial, but one which is vital to your understanding of the world you live in. And how will we accomplish this? By the most orthodox of scholarly methods. The only tools in our little black bag are (a) primary sources, (b) forgotten works by reputable historians of the present, and (c) modern works by respected academics.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/8/2/4/34/1:41%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} At present you believe that, in the American Revolution, good triumphed over evil. This is the aforementioned aggregate. We’re going to just scoop that right out with the #6 brain spoon. As we operate, we’ll replace it with the actual story of the American Rebellion — in which evil triumphed over good.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/8/2/4/58/1:531%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Thirty or forty additional officers in the whole Continent, are the Swarms which eat out the substance of the boasted number of three millions of people.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/8/2/4/62/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} He has refused his assent to laws the most wholesome and necessary for the public good; is of so general a nature, that it is not possible to conjecture to what laws or to what Colonies it refers. I remember no laws which any Colony has been restrained from passing, so as to cause any complaint of grievance
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/8/2/4/68/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Of course, you don’t really think of the Declaration as a list of factual particulars. You think of it as a deep moral statement, about humanity, or something. Nonetheless, it does contain a list of particulars. Isn’t it odd that it strikes us as odd to see these particulars closely examined?
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/8/2/4/72/1:41%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} So let’s advance to the second primary: Peter Oliver’s Origin & Progress of the American Rebellion.
		  http://www.archive.org/details/peteroliversorig007727mbp
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/8/2/4/108/1:159%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} the Mob of Otis & his clients plundered Mr. Hutchinsons House of its full Contents, destroyed his Papers, unroofed his House, & sought his & his Children’s Lives, which were saved by Flight.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/8/2/4/120/1:343%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} They openly denied the authority of parliament, not only to impose taxes, but to legislate for them in any respect whatsoever; adding, “that if there had been in any late instances a submission to acts of parliament, it was more from want of consideration or a reluctance to contend with the parent state, than a conviction of the supreme legislative authority of parliament.”
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/8/2/4/134/1:248%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Whereas you formerly thought of the values of the American Revolution as liberty, truth and justice, you now see the hallmarks of the American Rebellion as thuggery, treason, and — above all — hypocrisy.
		  
		  Therefore, since you can no longer be a Whig, you have no option but to become a Tory.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/8/2/4/150/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Humans being what they are, it is not terribly surprising that quite a few took the former path. Fortunately, this included many individuals of genuine character and substance, such as George Washington and John Adams, who may have been deluded by ideology but were not seduced by cupidity.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/8/2/4/152/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} As Colonel Stedman says, the rebels could and should have been crushed easily. In a fair fight, their real chances against the British military were slim to none. As the Union later found, suppressing guerrilla warfare, even in the wilds of North America, is not difficult given sufficient energy. Britain failed because it lacked that crucial ingredient in every war: the will to win.
		  
		  Britain in the Revolution was politically divided. Large numbers of mainstream political figures — most famously, both Pitt and Burke — sympathized with the Americans. Moreover, although the tea outrage finally created a nominal consensus for a military response, and finally made it imprudent for a British politician to openly urge surrender, a new lobby developed which urged conciliation, conciliation, and more conciliation.
		  
		  What we see, in other words, is the familiar pattern of two conflicting prescriptions for maintaining the integrity of the state. The Whig prescription says: conciliate the truculent, assuage their grievances whether real or feigned, loosen the ropes at every complaint. The Tory prescription says: enforce the law, and do not bend an inch in response to violence or any other extralegal pressure.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/8/2/4/180/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} In retrospect, your former support for the Whig cause was a classic received opinion, installed without any sort of thought on your part. In other words, it is not something you were reasoned into.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/8/2/4/182/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Note, from an almost military perspective, the curious weakness of your convictions in this regard. What made the “Revolution” an easy target is that you had no particular emotional attachment to it — at least, not compared to some other wars we could mention. Your attachment to the Patriot cause seemed rock-solid. But it disintegrated on contact with the enemy. It was all hat and no cattle.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/8/2/4/190/1:284%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} you have the reality in which there was an American Rebellion, which was a triumph for thuggery, treason, and hypocrisy.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/2[filepos101229]/2/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Part 3
	  collapsed:: true
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/28/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Today, we’ll expand this fresh alternate reality to three more points — each of which, unlike 18th-century history, is of considerable relevance in the real world today. To preserve some suspense, we’ll give them secret acronyms: AGW, KFM, and HNU.
		  
		  Each of these acronyms represents, so far as I can tell, a democratic feedback loop between public misperception and official malpractice. In other words: between lies and evil. Lies persuade well-intentioned voters to support policies which are in fact evil. Evil, being evil, has both the power and the incentive to maintain the lies. As we’ll see, these loops are quite stable, and they can be almost arbitrarily pernicious.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/34/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} AGW: anthropogenic global warming
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/38/1:103%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} we can call a believer in the organized scientific consensus behind AGW an AGW credulist. An unbeliever, of course, is an AGW denialist.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/76/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Such a statement is anti-scientific and anti-science in the most extreme sense. It accuses the scientific community broadly defined of deliberate fraud
		  [denying climate change]
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/80/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Now, as Loyalists, what do you hear when you hear this tone? I know what I hear. What I hear is Samuel Adams, James Otis, Jr., and Joseph Hawley. The distinctive whining scream of the Puritan, speaking power to truth as is his usual fashion.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/82/1:65%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} What we see quickly is that, at least as regards AGW, we live in what might be called a scientific theocracy. You cannot slip a sheet of paper between Science and State. They are one and the same. Especially with our new, improved, pro-science administration, the only legitimate source of public policy on AGW happens to be... the very scientists who research it. (Professor Hansen is a fine example.)
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/84/1:161%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The same experts perform the intellectual analysis and dictate the resulting policies.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/130/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Such a statement is anti-scientific and anti-science in the most extreme sense. It accuses the scientific community broadly defined of deliberate fraud — and not just the community of climate scientists, but the leading National Academies of Science around the world (including ours) and the American Geophysical Union, an organization of geophysicists that consists of more than 45,000 members and the American Meteorological Association and the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
		  Exactly.
		  
		  And it’s very interesting that we hear this from the AGW credulists, rather than the denialists. Your average AGW denialist does not want to go there. He wants the problem to be isolated. The last thing he wants is for the scientific community broadly defined, or even worse all the member governments of the IPCC, to appear in his crosshairs.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/150/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} AGW is the result of an effect described by Arrhenius in the late 19th century, in which CO2 in the atmosphere reflects outgoing infrared radiation back at the earth. There is no dispute as to the existence of this effect, or the increasing levels of CO2 in Earth’s atmosphere, or the fact that this trend is produced by people burning fossil fuels.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/158/1:77%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Science is that which is done by scientists. Scientists are people employed, with the title of professor, by the universities. The universities are accredited by Washington. Therefore, Science, in Joe Romm’s mind, can be defined as official truth.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/164/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The unusual trustworthiness of science, despite the fact that scientists are humans and humans are not generally trustworthy, exists when (a) hypotheses are falsifiable, and (b) the professional institutions within which scientists operate promote, broadcast, and reward any falsification. We can trust a consensus of scientists on a problem for which (a) and (b) are true, because we are basing our trust on the fact that, if the hypothesis is false, a large number of very smart people has tried and failed to discover its error. This is not, of course, impossible. But it is at least unlikely.
		  
		  So we have two definitions, and our $64,000 question: is Science science? That is: is the official truth of AGW, which claims the high credibility produced by Popperian falsifiability in a functioning system of critical feedback, in fact justified in claiming this credibility?
		  
		  The answer is easy: no.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/170/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} To understand the impact of increased CO2, we need to know the climate sensitivity.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/172/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} To estimate climate sensitivity, all you need is an accurate model of Earth’s atmosphere. Likewise, to get to Alpha Centauri, all you have to do is jump very high. The difference between the computing power we have, and the computing power we would need in order to accurately model Earth’s atmosphere, is comparable to the difference between my vertical leap and the distance to Alpha Centauri. For all practical purposes, climate modeling is the equivalent of earthquake prediction: an unsolvable problem.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/174/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If you want to see this argument laid out in detail, read Pat Frank’s article in Skeptic.
		  http://www.skeptic.com/the_magazine/featured_articles/v14n01_climate_of_belief.html
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/176/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} There is simply no scientific way to verify or falsify the accuracy of any such piece of software. It is not practical to perturb Earth’s climate, perturb your model’s climate, and test that they both respond in the same way. And there is no other way to test a model. In the end, all you have is a curve that records past temperature, and a piece of software that generates future temperature. Perhaps if we could watch the predicted and actual curves match up for a century or so, we could generate something like statistical significance. But we can’t. And hindcasting — fitting the models to data from the past — overfits, and is completely worthless.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/180/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} It is fairly clear that Earth’s temperature has been increasing over the last few centuries, and that in the 20th century it rose from 1900 through the ’30s, fell from the ’30s through the ’70s, rose from the ’70s through the ’90s, and has been flat since the ’90s. What would it have done in the absence of increasing CO2? Again, we have no way to know. We have no model. We cannot separate the curves. (This paper [large PDF] by Syun-Ichi Akasofu makes the point quite elegantly.)
		  http://www.iarc.uaf.edu/highlights/2007/akasofu_3_07/Earth_recovering_from_LIA.pdf
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/182/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Besides the fraud, what’s creepy about the hockey stick is that it implicitly argues causality by mere visual analogy. We see increasing temperature and increasing CO2, so the two must be related. WTF? This is not the kind of argument that appeals to a scientist. It is the kind of argument that appeals to a voter.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/186/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The justified arrogance of falsifiable science is such that, when science goes bad, it goes extremely bad. Langmuir’s description of pathological science is worth reading.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/196/1:71%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} how a scientific consensus can produce a fraudulent result. The answer is simple: the entire field is fraudulent. In a fraudulent pseudoscience, there is no incentive at all for uncovering error, because the only result of a successful dissent is to destroy your job and those of your peers.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/200/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} I am taking some heat for all this from my peers outside Georgia Tech. The climate blog police were very upset by my congratulations to Steve upon winning the best science blog award. A recent seminar speaker was appalled to be included in the same seminar series as steve and pat, and told me i was misleading my students.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/202/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Cargo-cult scientists have to circle the wagons like this. If they piss off the NSF program managers, their life expectancy as successful grantwinners is not impressive. Real scientists have no such need to be defensive, because their program managers actually want them to expose any errors in their field.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/204/1:47%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} the source of coordinated error is not, at all, a conspiracy. It is simply the funding source. Nearly every scientist in a field can be working together to promote a falsehood because they all get their money from Joe Romm and company. And if the falsehood is exposed rather than promoted, there is no field left. It is no more surprising that all USG-funded scientists are unanimous in promoting AGW as a global emergency, than that all Philip Morris-funded scientists are unanimous in promoting tobacco as a vitamin.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/210/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The incentive of all federally-funded science is the same: keep your funding, and try to get more. It is not that most scientists are “in it for the money.” It is that you cannot be a successful scientist, in this era, without being a successful bureaucrat.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/212/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} And we start to see how this entire disaster developed. First: out of genuine curiosity, people started trying to build climate models, measure CO2, and the like. Second: since USG is not a charity, they had to apply for grants and describe the importance of their work. Third: they noticed, consciously or subconsciously, that an easy way to make their work seem more important was to predict disastrous consequences. Fourth: the same evolutionary feedback process that, in a falsifiable science, eradicates error, operated to promote it. Researchers and fields which produced more alarming results received more funding — because, by definition, their work was more important. Iterate to the point of sheer insanity, and you have the AGW research community we have today.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/218/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Here is a thought-experiment that will resolve this easily for you. In a world with no fossil fuels and a stable CO2 level, scientists studying the sun announce that they have (never mind how) scientifically determined that its intensity will increase by 0.3% between now and 2100. You are Dictator of Earth. How do you react to this information?
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/222/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Recall from Shaviv’s math that, if we ignore feedbacks and treat Earth as a black body, the expected climate sensitivity is about 1 degree Celsius.
		  http://www.sciencebits.com/OnClimateSensitivity
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/224/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} First, realize how thoroughly un-terrifying these figures are. Even if you triple them. If, as Dictator of Earth, your worst problem is oceans that will rise a foot in a century, or air that will become three degrees warmer, you simply don’t have much of a problem. What ever happened to the Nazis? Perhaps aliens could invade? Being Dictator of Earth has to be more challenging than this. If your subjects can’t handle oceans that rise by a half-centimeter a year, perhaps you need to focus on breeding more intelligent subjects.
		  
		  Our trick here was to replace the “artificial” increase of CO2 with a “natural” brightening of the sun. These have identical effects on the Earth, and identical consequences for its residents. But only one has a narrative of guilt and redemption. What we see is that the results, stripped of their Puritan moral baggage, are just not all that terrifying. Environmentalists often play this game; in the classic Jesuitical fashion of the good old black regiment, they will talk guilt and redemption to those who want to hear guilt and redemption, and practical consequences to those more receptive to reality. The guilt and redemption are drivel; the practical consequences, as we see when we look at them on their own, are just not that serious.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/228/1:104%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} For most of the 20th century, students of global climate made a simple assumption: warmer was better. We can see this in the names that previous generations of scientists applied to past warm periods, such as the Holocene Optimum and the Medieval Optimum. “Optimum” does not mean “worse.” To the researchers who invented these names, it was just obvious that a warmer climate meant warmer temperate regions, a more fertile Earth, and more human prosperity.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/230/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} But in the age of AGW, there is no professional incentive for researchers to study the positive effects of warming climate, and a tremendous incentive for them to study the negative effects.
		  http://www.spiked-online.com/index.php?/site/article/2045/
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/234/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} This gives us our policy prescription: end all official funding of science, especially in cases in which the output of the science drives public policy. If a government to rely on the advice of scientists, it must make sure that it is relying on actual, falsifiable science, and that the institutions producing that science have no incentive to produce anything other than the truth. The obvious way to do this is to separate science and state, for the health of both.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/240/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If you surf from Climate Progress to Climate Audit, the change from the world of funding and impact to the world of skepticism and curiosity is unmistakable and infinitely refreshing. The former is an NGO, supported by nameless and sinister fat cats. The latter has a tip jar. ’Nuff said. Someday, all of science will return to the attitude and methodology of a Steve McIntyre, and its Washingtonian captivity will seem like no more than a bad dream.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/242/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} KFM: Keynes-Fisher macroeconomics
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/246/1:11%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} when we see mainstream articles with names like “How the Entire Economics Profession Failed”, we might seduce ourselves into the pleasant, Candidean belief that the “entire economics profession” was ready to resign its sinecures
		  [The Daily Beast: The Latest in Politics, Media & Entertainment News](http://www.thedailybeast.com/blogs-and-stories/2009-01-08/how-the-entire-economics-profession-failed/full/)
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/246/4/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Yves Smith has links to a couple more pieces in this vein. Alas, they are all equally clueless.
		  [Why So Little Self-Recrimination Among Economists? | naked capitalism](http://www.nakedcapitalism.com/2009/01/why-so-little-self-recrimination-among.html)
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/248/1:123%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Not counting Marxists, there are three significant schools of economic thought today: one founded by Lord Keynes and revitalized by Paul Samuelson (also known as “economics”), one founded by Irving Fisher and revitalized by Milton Friedman (also known as the Chicago School), and one founded by Ludwig von Mises and revitalized by Murray Rothbard (also known as the Austrian School).
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/250/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} As a rough guess, there are ten Keynesian professors for every Fisherite, and twenty Fisherites for every Misesian. Only Keynesians and Fisherites have an influence on public policy today.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/252/1:266%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Keynes and Fisher are new economics. Mises is orthodox economics.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/256/1:74%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} As anyone who has read Hazlitt’s essential Failure of the New Economics [book-length PDF] knows, the Baron was anything but a precise thinker, but he generally uses the term orthodox to describe 19th-century or at least pre-WWI economics. This certainly would include Mises, whose school is the only real 20th-century survival of anything like what Victorians called economics.
		  http://www.mises.org/books/failureofneweconomics.pdf
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/258/1:119%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Let’s say an orthodox economist is an economist who believes that any supply of money is adequate, and the money supply should be either fixed or bound to a commodity whose supply is very difficult to expand, such as gold. A new economist is a believer in an “elastic currency”: he believes that the amount of money in a country should expand as the country “grows.” Typically this involves a belief in paper money.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/264/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The currency debate presented three distinct phases: first, the proposition, broached in 1867, known as the greenback theory, under which the interest-bearing bonds of the United States, issued during the Rebellion, were to be paid at maturity in United States legal tender notes, bearing no interest at all. This somewhat amazing proposition was speedily disposed of; for, early in 1869, an act was passed declaring the bonds payable “in coin.” But, as was sure to be the case, the so-called “Fiat Money” delusion had obtained a firm lodgment in the minds of a large part of the community, and to drive it out was the work of time. It assumed, too, all sorts of aspects. Dispelled in one form, it appeared in another. When, for instance, the act of 1860 settled the question as respects the redemption of the bonds, the financial crisis of 1873 re-opened it by creating an almost irresistible popular demand for a government paper currency as a permanent substitute for specie.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/266/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} This passage was written in 1901. Note Adams’ perception of the paper-money advocates: they are insane, demagogic monetary cranks.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/272/1:7%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} both the Keynes and Fisher schools are what a Misesian would call inflationist. (Adams would probably use the same word, too.) That is: they believe that expanding or otherwise debasing the currency is on some or all occasions beneficial to the health of the State.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/274/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} We can separate the Keynes and Fisher schools based on their preferred vehicles for inflation. Keynesians think governments should inflate the money supply through deficit spending — the “stimulus” we have grown to love so dearly. Fisherites think the best way to inflate the money supply is by fixing interest rates, a policy sometimes known as “easy” or “cheap” money. I’m afraid that, with AmeriZIRP in full swing, the Keynesians have rather the best of it.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/284/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Rather, the difference is between a hard or inelastic currency, and a soft or “elastic” one. The former cannot be inflated; the latter can. An ideal hard currency has no new supply.
		  
		  The key fact about money is that what matters to you is not how much money you have, but what fraction of the total money supply you have. It is the latter than determines your power to exchange money for other goods, in competition with present moneyholders.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/292/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Keynes and Fisher did not propose inflation as an all-purpose stimulant for general fun. They proposed it as a cure for economic recessions and depressions, which were certainly in no short supply at the time. We are entering a recession or depression now, so it seems wise to revisit the issue. Is cocaine a good remedy for depression? Why do so many people want to inflate?
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/296/1:70%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} inflation — or, to use a more precise term, monetary dilution
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/300/1:11%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} the way to perceive the “new economics” is in exactly the same way that Adams perceived it: not a sane government policy, but a response to pressure groups.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/300/1:319%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} our pressure group here is the business owner. Farmers in debt also tend to do quite well with inflation. But, again: any monetary debasement can be modeled as a monetary transfer.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/302/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} As in the case of AGW, we ended up with “new economics” because that was what Washington wanted to hear. The case is the same today: Barack Obama’s “stimulus” proposal involves doubling Federal discretionary spending, ie everyone’s budget. Obviously, this makes quite a few people very happy. And it probably spreads the loot around a little better than if we were just to give it all, up front, to Tony Rezko.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/304/1:230%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} n the ’20s and ’30s, when university men started to move into government, politically palatable solutions were needed. The Austrians and other orthodox historians had nothing of the sort. So they were left out of the pie when all the power got distributed, and today they have no government jobs and only a few marginal academic ones.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/308/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} “Business cycle” is an extremely misleading phrase. A better phrase would be banking cycle. As I discussed here, the cause of the recurrent panics and collapses is a bad accounting practice in the Anglo-American banking system, generally known as maturity mismatching.
		  http://unqualified-reservations.blogspot.com/2008/10/misesian-explanation-of-bank-crisis.html
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/310/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} A maturity-mismatched bank, which is any bank today, writes promises of money it doesn’t have — yet. It “borrows short and lends long,” balancing short-term liabilities (such as checking deposits, whose term is zero, as they can be withdrawn at any time) with long-term assets (such as mortgages paid over 30 years).
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/312/1:55%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} while a maturity-mismatch structure is not quite the same thing as a Ponzi scheme, they both have a tendency to collapse catastrophically in a cloud of dust, leaving investors with a lot less money than they thought they had. Effectively, maturity mismatching lets banks teleport money from the future into the present. What’s bad is that this is inflationary, and what’s worse is that — when the scheme collapses — the inflation reverses. This creates your recessions, depressions, etc.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/314/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} So we now have a perfect understanding of the origins of Fisher-Keynes inflationism. It exists not because it makes sense but because politicians desire it. Politicians desire it as a palliative for the deflationary conditions of a maturity crisis (or any other crash). In the 19th century, such crashes were often described as “shortages of money” (meaning shortages of present money). And printing will certainly solve that.
		  
		  It’s important to note that while maturity-mismatch inflation has a reverse gear, and so do the open-market operations used for Fisherite monetary policy (these can either create money or retire money), Keynesian spending does not. This is a pattern that leads to long-term monetary decay: first, maturity mismatching inflates the economy and creates a huge amount of debt; second, a maturity crisis triggers a panic, the debt goes bad, and the country enters depression; and third, massive doses of Keynesian heroin are injected into its aorta, waking it up. Sadly, it will need more heroin tomorrow — and so on.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/318/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} What a sane and healthy government tries to avoid is inflation dependency. This addiction is a state in which a substantial percentage of consumer spending originates in newly printed or lent money. For example, before the real-estate crash, about 5% of US GDP was home-equity withdrawals — money teleported out of the future, and into thin air.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/320/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} We start to see how appalling the Keynesian stimulus is. First, it replaces one addiction — the vanished “home ATM” — with a new one, Federal money. Second, budgets in Washington do not get cut, at least not routinely. The stimulus will be permanent, which means we’ve replaced one addiction with another.
		  
		  And third, when we do this, we shift a substantial percentage of private economic activity into the hands of Washington’s finest, who never turn down either money or power.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/326/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} To end the banking cycle permanently, our existing structures of long-term debt which back short-term liabilities need to be restructured. One way to do this is the classic Austrian approach: let everything collapse. If we were actually on the gold standard, this might well be our only option — but we’re not. It is much easier to transition to a fixed-supply fiat currency, which is in fact harder than gold (because there is no new production at all).
		  
		  Basically, the only painless, specific, and lasting way out of the banking cycle is to purchase all financial assets with freshly-issued dollars, then sell the assets and destroy the dollars paid for them, and start lending back up with new banks and maturity-matched accounting. This is a full reboot of the financial system. Accept no substitutes. Yes, it involves some inflation, but the inflation is (a) one-time, and (b) pointed at the actual problem.
		  
		  Once again, this is not going to happen — despite the fact that it should be obvious. There is simply no power in the world, not even obviousness, that can displace our present economics faculty, or dislodge them from their lock on policy.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/334/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} HNU: human neurological uniformity
		  And last but not least: our third case study in adaptive mendacity under the democratic system, HNU or human neurological uniformity.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/338/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} An HNU credulist believes that modern human subpopulations are neurologically uniform. In other words, genetic differences between races (if the term is even acknowledged) are of no behavioral significance. Especially committed credulists may believe that genetic differences between individuals are of no behavioral significance, or even that human behavior has not been shaped at all by evolutionary history — both forms of the “Blank Slate” hypothesis.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/338/1:456%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} (If you are new to the issue, you could do a lot worse than starting with Pinker’s book.)
		  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Blank_Slate
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/340/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} You may, for instance, hear phrases like “we are all the same under the skin.” Are we?
		  http://www.boneclones.com/BC-031.htm
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/340/1:80%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} (And consider the behavioral correlates.)
		  http://online.wsj.com/article_email/SB123214753161791813-lMyQjAxMDI5MzEyNzExNDc3Wj.html
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/346/1:107%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} how do the spinmeisters of HNU credulism — from Stephen Jay Gould down — operate?
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/348/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} First: shift the burden of proof to the converse of your unsupported hypothesis, defining it as the null hypothesis — true until proven false. Second: raise the standards for proving it false to an absurd and unsatisfiable level. (See this for a typical attempt to clear the ever-rising bar.)
		  http://www.udel.edu/educ/gottfredson/30years/Rushton-Jensen30years.pdf
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/360/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} For instance, David Hume — founder of modern rational thought — was an HNU denialist:
		  http://books.google.com/books?id=w8cIAAAAQAAJ
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/362/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} I am apt to suspect the Negroes to be naturally inferior to the Whites. There scarcely ever was a civilized nation of that complexion, nor even any individual, eminent either in action or speculation. No ingenious manufactures amongst them, no arts, no sciences. On the other hand, the most rude and barbarous of the Whites, such as the ancient Germans, the present Tartars, have still something eminent about them, in their valour, form of government, or some other particular. Such a uniform and constant difference could not happen, in so many countries and ages, if nature had not made an original distinction between these breeds of men. Not to mention our colonies, there are Negro slaves dispersed all over Europe, of whom none ever discovered any symptoms of ingenuity; though low people, without education, will start up amongst us, and distinguish themselves in every profession. In Jamaica, indeed, they talk of one Negro as a man of parts and learning; but it is likely he is admired for slender accomplishments, like a parrot who speaks a few words plainly.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/372/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} One also must be quite a bit more careful than Hume with the words superior and inferior. This implies some quantitative ordering of overall personal worth, an idea one would expect Hume to be the last to accept. For example, consider the proposition that Jews tend to be better chess players than Negroes, whereas Negroes tend to be better dancers than Jews. Both halves of this statement may (or may not) be true, but neither can justify us in ranking the two races overall — unless our sole criterion of personal worth is either chess or dance. Which mine isn’t.
		  
		  I will take the liberty of suggesting that Hume, had he known how touchy his descendants would become on this subject, would have said that Europeans tend to have higher labor productivity than Negroes. As measured in wages, this is an easily verifiable fact of no moral significance whatsoever.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/382/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} It’s true that our planet, at present, hosts quite a few healthy humans whose present economic productivity is negative. But this is probably best explained as a case of mere misgovernment. Civilized societies in the past have found that the demand for menial labor is, at the right price, almost inexhaustible, and have flourished with a very high ratio of laborers to elites. If present political structures fail under these demographic conditions, the fault is — once again — with the political structures. (For example, colonial Spanish America thrived peacefully under royal government, and became violent and corrupt under republican institutions.)
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/438/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Before 1960, most Negroes had jobs, most Negro children were born to married parents, and most cities in America had thriving Negro business districts (such as Bronzeville in Chicago). All this is gone.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/446/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The HNU credulist of the Gunnar Myrdal era discovered two principal aspects of this problem. One: Negroes in America had no effective political power and were often discriminated against by the government, mainly state governments in the South. Two: Europeans in America generally disliked Negroes, and preferred not to associate with them (ie, they were racists). Therefore, the Negro problem could be solved by (a) giving Negroes money and power, and (b) educating Europeans to like and respect their Negro brothers, who (respectable scientists assured them) were exactly the same as them, under the skin.
		  
		  Fifty years ago, this prescription was not absurd. America took it. It didn’t seem to be working, so we doubled the dose. And so began the usual pattern of iatrogenic escalation. Far from curing the relatively mild social pathologies of the Negro community in the early 20th century, the Myrdal therapy aggravated them, converting small precancerous lesions into vast metastatic melanomas. Of course, this called for even more medicine. And so on.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/452/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Antiracism gained power in the United States through what we call the civil-rights movement. Perhaps a more precise name would be the black-rage industry, but we can compromise and settle for black-power movement. When you hear these words, you probably think of the “carnivorous” side of the whole circus, with Huey Newton, H. Rap Brown and Field Marshal Cinque, and not the “vegetarian” side, with Martin Luther King, Jesse Jackson, etc.
		  
		  But from the perspective of European-Americans, the two acted as a perfect Mutt and Jeff act. Mutt said: I’ll kill you. Jeff said: that Mutt is a really bad apple, and if you don’t give me money and power he might well kill you.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/458/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Americans failed to grasp the fundamentally predatory nature of the black-power movement. Rather than suppressing it forcefully and restoring the rule of law, the worse it behaved the more they fed it. The result was, and is, a Negro population which has essentially seceded from mainstream American culture, to the tremendous disadvantage of both parties. The resulting ghetto culture remains marinated with black-power ideology, although it is now so distant from the lives of you or I that we only notice it when a Jeremiah Wright somehow swims into view.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/462/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Lynchmobs and segregated lunch counters are a thing of the past, but the consequences once attributed to them have only gotten worse. Therefore, the campaign against racism must only strengthen. Consider the discovery of unconscious racism. The involuntary, concealed, guilt-inducing activation of the European amygdala somehow seems to do just as good a job, if not better, as any Klan mob of keeping the black man down. We must get rid of the amygdala! Coincidentally — or not — this racist organ is also the part of the brain activated when you or I feel fear. I can’t imagine why that would be.
		  http://www.colorofcrime.com/colorofcrime2005.pdf
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/10/2/4/468/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The policy solution here is obvious: eliminate the race industry, abolish all racial privileges including laws against “harassment” and “discrimination,” and restore unconditional freedom of speech and freedom of association. Someday, sooner or later, probably later, all this nonsense will end up in whatever dusty closet we sent the segregated water coolers too. Our government will finally forget about race and treat individuals as individuals. And the entire country will party for a week — except those who need to be arrested.
		  
		  Yes. This is what happens when you think for yourself. Suddenly, your mind is full of all sorts of completely unacceptable — but strangely logical — ideas. These three cases are probably the most spectacular, but the list could easily be extended.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4/6/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The trouble with last week’s examples is that, while they may convince you that some seriously foul residue has built up in the democratic feedback cycle of State, School, and People, they don’t really help us understand just what that gunk is, how it can be pumped back out of the pipes, or how much better the kitchen will smell without it.
		  
		  The cases of AGW, KFM and HNU, assuming we’ve analyzed them correctly (if one or even two are wrong, it is not hard to come up with others), do not constitute anything like a real picture of the actual, real reality behind the official reality show.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4/2[filepos205037]/2/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Part 4
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4/24/1:94%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The modern Left evolved from one 18th-century Anglo-American tradition (English Radicalism), which over the last two centuries captured almost every intellectual and political institution in the world. Any post-1945 perspective outside this movement (Updike’s, for instance) is not the product of any significant intellectual quality-control process, because the modern Right has no significant intellectual institutions (by the standards of the modern Left).
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4/30/1:187%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Clearly, the State is sick; by definition, it is sick because it is not healthy; but what, exactly, is a healthy State?
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4/32/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} For example: WTF is wrong with Washington? Why, for example, is it so grimly and joyously intent on crushing productive industries and rewarding inept ones?
		  http://www.handmadetoyalliance.org/ + http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2009/01/15/AR2009011503570.html
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4/32/1:178%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} the royalist surgeon steps into the room, glances quickly into America’s open skull, and scribbles a diagnosis as obvious as it is concise: republicanism. (“As bad a case as I’ve ever seen. Very little hope, I’m afraid.”)
	  
	  Is royalism the answer? It would surely be an improvement. But we must blame royalism for the faults of democracy, because the former decayed into the latter. It would be a bit of a waste to go to all the trouble of restoring the Stuarts, then see the same thing happen again.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4/36/1:49%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} I’m asking more or less the same question that Carlyle posed in his Latter-Day Pamphlets (especially #3 and #4, Downing Street and New Downing Street), and I get more or less the same answer. This is UR for you: a late, decadent, second-rate imitation of Carlyle:
	  
	  And secondly it is felt that “reform” in that Downing-Street department of affairs is precisely the reform which were worth all others; that those administrative establishments in Downing Street are really the Government of this huge ungoverned Empire; that to clean out the dead pedantries, unveracities, indolent somnolent impotences, and accumulated dung-mountains there, is the beginning of all practical good whatsoever. Yes, get down once again to the actual pavement of that; ascertain what the thing is, and was before dung accumulated in it; and what it should and may, and must, for the life’s sake of this Empire, henceforth become: here clearly lies the heart of the whole matter.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4/42/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Here’s how we’ll explore Carlyle’s question: we’ll take Matthew Yglesias’ challenge, and solve the financial crisis. UR’s cure for the monetary blues, hereafter to be known as Plan Moldbug, is (a) instantaneously effective, (b) thoroughly fair, (c) certain to be wildly popular, and (d) results in a stable, free-market monetary system.
	  http://yglesias.thinkprogress.org/archives/2009/01/question_for_stimuskeptics.php
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4/62/1:110%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Despite recent frenzied printing, there are fewer than 2T dollars in the world, but the personal net worth of all Americans (alone) is roughly 50T dollars.
	  http://research.stlouisfed.org/fred2/series/BASE, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wealth_in_the_United_States
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4/66/1:37%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} it doesn’t make sense. If dollars were sols and could not be printed, this structure would collapse instantly. Even though dollars can be printed, it remains so unstable that it is collapsing anyway. Here is my analysis of what this crazy thing is and why it is falling apart. (Basically, the source of the instability is a loophole in bank accounting, which lets banks pretend to teleport money from the future into the present. This loophole has not been closed because it is (a) very lucrative and (b) very old.)
	  http://unqualified-reservations.blogspot.com/2008/10/misesian-explanation-of-bank-crisis.html
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4/84/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} What we call a “recession” is a gap between what consumers, with their 2009 brokerage statements, want to consume, and what producers, who did not expect the asset price collapse, planned to produce. These numbers must be equal. The obvious way for them to converge is for the productive economy to reduce capacity — close factories, lay off employees, etc.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4/90/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Nonetheless, I think liquidation is an error. Here’s why.
	  
	  Imagine that, instead of holding securities, everyone held cash. We can then replicate the chain of events from portfolio decline to consumer-spending recession, by replacing a decline in asset prices with a simple destruction of money. Suppose, for example, that every dollar whose serial number is divisible by 2 was badly manufactured. One day, all these dollars disintegrate.
	  
	  Thus, everyone’s net dollar worth falls by 50%; spending craters; so does production; and we get, in short, exactly what we’re seeing now, with our 50% decline in financial-asset prices.
	  
	  Now, how should a healthy government — a New Downing Street — react to this event? Option one: it can do nothing, allow consumption to fall, and let production stabilize at its new equilibrium. This is the liquidationist solution.
	  
	  If dollars were Fourth Empire sols (or gold), liquidation would be the only possible solution. However, they are not. In the famous words of Ben Bernanke, USG has a “device called a printing press” which can produce them at zero cost.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4/100/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} More traditionally, USG can raise an arbitrary number of dollars by borrowing them, ie exchanging them for risk-free government bonds (which are risk-free because of said printing press). This is a difference of degree: a bond of zero maturity is simply a dollar note, and a bond of nonzero maturity is equivalent to a dollar with a “not valid until” date. Thus borrowing, for a monetary authority, just means printing money that is not ripe yet. (The purpose of printing unripe money is to reduce its positive effect on present consumption and hence present prices; since our problem is the opposite, not “inflation” but “deflation,” there is no reason not to just print ripe money.)
	  
	  If this confuses you, don’t worry. Just remember that the US cannot possibly run out of its own Monopoly money.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4/104/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Option two: the US can stimulate consumption by printing new dollars and lending them to banks, who will then in turn lend to consumers, who will spend. This is the monetarist (Fisher/Friedman) solution. It is not available to us at present, because economic actors are so deeply indebted that they cannot borrow even at zero interest rates.
	  http://www.nakedcapitalism.com/2008/07/has-deleveraging-even-begun-not-for.html
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4/106/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Option three: the Keynesian “stimulus.” The US can stimulate consumption by printing new money and spending it. For reasons that are essentially cosmetic, this is generally done by hiring people to do useless jobs — Keynes himself, for example, once suggested burying stacks of bills in abandoned mineshafts, then filling up the mines, to produce an equivalent of gold mining for fiat currency. Most of your “green jobs,” inasmuch as they produce nothing of any practical use to anyone, are of just this sort.
	  
	  The process can be short-circuited, however, with an even simpler approach. USG could simply print money to buy unwanted goods and services. (It already does this in agriculture.) For example, if demand for Hummers falls, there is nothing at all which prevents Congress from appropriating (printing) a billion dollars or two to buy Hummers. These can then be sunk in the ocean as an artificial reef, creating fish. (I have no joke — I just like saying “creating fish.”)
	  
	  Perhaps this reductio ad absurdum brings home the fundamentally Soviet logic of Keynesianism. In the future, we will all do worthless work for worthless money. Change.
	  http://readthestimulus.org/, http://www.nytimes.com/2009/02/01/magazine/01Economy-t.html?hp=&pagewanted=all
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4/112/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} So: option one results in considerable personal suffering and destruction of industrial capacity. Option two does not work. This leaves us with option three, which has no historical record of working (at least, it neither cured the Great Depression nor ended Japan’s “lost decade”), and is obviously absurd. Nonetheless, logic must admit the possibility that it could work — for some values of the word “work.” So it seems like our best bet.
	  
	  However, there is a fourth option. My example was specially crafted to make it obvious. Hopefully, you are already jumping up and down in your seat with your hand raised.
	  
	  Option four is to simply replace the defective dollars. If you held dollars with serial numbers divisible by 2, you now have a wallet full of green lint. Send us the green lint. We’ll weigh it, figure out exactly how many dollars you used to have, and print new ones to replace them.
	  
	  Note how much simpler and more elegant this approach is. We are actually fixing the actual problem: the destruction of money. We are curing the disease, not the symptoms. We are giving the feverish patient antibiotics, not immersing him in a bath of icewater.
	  
	  Moreover, option 4 is also the fair solution. Whose fault is the crisis? USG’s. What did USG do wrong? It printed defective dollars. How can it make its wrong right? Replace the defective products. Not only does this restore the equilibrium of production and consumption, it also restores the contents of its citizens’ wallets.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4/122/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Of course, the financial crisis was not actually caused by defective dollars. No: it was caused by a defective banking system. This system, while nominally “private,” was constructed and operated under the laws of USG, which claimed and exercised the right to regulate it down to the last crossed T — even if this regulation was in many cases inadequate or even counterproductive. Moreover, the Rube Goldberg machine that managed to amplify two trillion actual dollars into a $100 trillion securities market could not have operated without an incestuous connection between bank and state, in the form of both formal deposit insurance and informal “too big to fail” moral hazard. Again: the fault is clear.
	  
	  Thus, Plan Moldbug: the real-life equivalent of mailing in your green lint. Replacing a defective financial system is harder than replacing a defective printing press. But still quite doable, as we’ll see.
	  http://www.independent.org/pdf/policy_reports/2008-10-03-trainwreck.pdf
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4/128/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Step one: nationalize all market-priced financial assets at the present market price, exchanging them for new dollars. USG buys all publicly-traded American securities, and foreign securities held by Americans. It thus becomes the sole owner and operator of all public companies, and in doing so it also acquires all the banks (for the price of their common stock, which is not much these days). By acquiring all the banks, it acquires all their dodgy mortgages and other “bad” securities. Obviously, after this process, all debts USG owes to itself are cancelled.
	  
	  Hedge funds, private equity, and other exotic assets held by individuals may require some appraisal. But these are held by rich people, who are patriotic and don’t mind taking a bit of a haircut. Also requiring appraisal are homes; if you are a homeowner, USG calculates your home equity (perhaps using an automated appraisal, such as Zillow’s), and buys it from you. You are now a renter; USG is your landlord. Your new rent is calculated as a percentage of your home appraisal.
	  
	  The result of step one is that USG owns all financial assets, major corporations, and real estate. In return, each USG citizen has one number: how many dollars they have. Perhaps the most straightforward way to implement this is to give every American a direct account at the Federal Reserve (a privilege now held only by banks). Thus, all your portfolios are automatically sold at the current market price, and your statement is mailed from the Eccles Building. The little number at the bottom, however, is the number you care about. This number has not changed. If your portfolio was worth $250,000, you now have $250,000.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4/146/1:231%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Basically, we are finding all the fuzzy, virtual, implicit, green-lint dollars in the world, and replacing them with actual dollars.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4/148/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Step four: auction all the financial assets previously nationalized — corporations, real estate, etc. There is certainly plenty of cash around to buy them with. Destroy the dollars received in the auction.
	  
	  Why are we selling the assets we just bought? We bought them to close out a broken financial system, in which the relationship between asset prices and dollars was unstable and unhealthy. We are selling them to establish their free-market price in a stable, healthy financial system. We do not know what the right relationship between the number of dollars in the world and the net price of its financial assets should be. So we ask the market, and the market tells us.
	  
	  If you were a homeowner before step one, you sold your house to the government and now rent. We don’t want to evict anyone unnecessarily, so we’ll offer you the opportunity to buy back your house for 10% less than the winning bidder — presumably some faceless conglomerate. If you reject this opportunity, your rent to the conglomerate is a function of the price it paid.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4/154/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Step five: renumber the currency. Every dollar in the world (perhaps about 200T) has a new serial number — from 0 to 200T. This limit will never change. Write it into the Constitution. As long as we can hold the line on this number, our new financial system is built on a fiat currency that will be harder than gold (since new gold can be mined).
	  
	  Or, for extra credit, redenominate the currency (including debts and contracts, this time) so that rather than a random decimal number of dollars, there is a round binary number — such as 2^64. This has two advantages: (1) micropayments, and (2) a round binary limit will rapidly get baked into all sorts of financial software, and become almost impossible to change.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4/158/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} And that’s Plan Moldbug. If this isn’t a full reboot of the financial system, what is? If the financial system doesn’t need a full reboot, what does? Now, let’s review the advantages, as previously claimed, of this plan.
	  
	  Is it instantaneously effective? Only inasmuch as the Googlers can implement all five steps instantaneously, perhaps; but only steps one and two are needed to reverse deflation, and these are easy. Is it effective? Yes, because tripling everyone’s net worth should restore consumer spending quite handily. Is it fair? Perhaps not perfectly, but at least your new net worth is a function of your old net worth, and the government picks no winners or losers. Is it popular? Does a bear...
	  
	  And does it restore a stable, free-market financial system? USG sells all the assets it nationalized, and its new dollar is the hardest currency in human history. We are increasing total dollar net worth over its pre-crash level, to make up for the termination of credit expansion, so the new dollar may have a slightly lower purchasing power. But the new dollar is watertight and does not leak, so there will be no persistent inflation.
	  
	  And none of this matters at all, because Plan Moldbug will never, ever happen. At least, not as long as we have anything like the government we have now.
	  
	  The problem with Plan Moldbug is that it can only be executed by a strong government.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4/182/1:287%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} government is a product, and we are its consumers — whether we like it or not.
	  
	  This unsurprising, but strangely uncommon, perspective also allows us to distinguish between quality and price. The price of a government is simply the level of taxation it imposes. Of course, as consumers we are prepared to balance quality and price, but our key goal at the moment is an engineering problem: how do we even create a high-quality government? Once we know how to build it, we can focus on getting the price down.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4/188/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} For me, quality of government comes in two dimensions: responsibility and authority. Both qualities are monotonically positive. There is no Goldilocks about them. A government cannot be too responsible or too authoritative — any more than food can be too tasty, bass too funky, or sex too hot.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4/194/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} An easy way to see this is to see the royal family as a family business, that business being the State. A sovereign state has no law above it to govern its affairs, and exists solely as a function of its own ability to defend itself. In all other respects it is exactly the same as any other corporate enterprise. For example, states and private corporations can, should, and usually do use the same accounting conventions, HR procedures, management structures, etc, etc.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4/198/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The joint-stock republic is a very different entity from your ordinary, democratic republic. Its shares are negotiable and freely traded. Owning a share is not a “right,” except in the sense that if you own a share of Intel you have a right to receive Intel dividends. And, most importantly, the republic is operated for the exclusive benefit of its shareholders. All corporate governance mechanisms are otherwise the same, although without a superior sovereign to enforce them they must enforce themselves. Briefly: combine this technology with this one. (Those Google engineers will be busy.)
	  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Secret_sharing, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Permissive_action_link
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4/200/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If the republic is operated for the exclusive benefit of its shareholders, who of course are likely to resemble the corporate shareholders of the present day (pension funds, fat cats, Saudi sheikhs, etc), how on earth does it provide high-quality government? Shouldn’t it be operated for the benefit of its customers?
	  
	  This is the miracle of capitalism, so familiar and yet still so strange. The capitalist restaurant is operated for the benefit of its owners. The Communist restaurant is operated for the benefit of its customers. But which has better food?
	  
	  We must agree that a restaurant operated effectively for the benefit of the customers will be a better restaurant than any operated for the benefit of the owners. But it is not possible to design a management structure that will reliably achieve this result. The problem is fundamental: we cannot state a precise and unambiguous definition of “good food” that we know all customers will agree on. We cannot characterize the results objectively or quantitatively.
	  
	  We can, however, operate a restaurant effectively for the benefit of the owners, because we can describe what the owners want objectively and quantitatively: money. The more, the better. Thus the restaurant can be accountable to its owners, as it never can to its customers. And it is this accountability, this quality of tautness, which causes it to serve its customers well. A string can be loose in many ways, but tight in only one.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4/210/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} CEOs of private corporations today may be effective or ineffective.
	  Honestly, time is proving CEOs to be more incompetent than not. Often they're ideologues that drive their business into the ground e.g. Disney's films. Or they are leeches e.g. Mozilla CEO
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4/212/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Thus, responsibility. Let’s look at the more interesting question of authority — or strength.
	  
	  Authority is the state’s ability to act decisively, cohesively, proactively and intelligently. From our experience in the private sector (not to mention the military sector), the formula for authority is clear: unity of command.
	  http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pubs/display.cfm?pubID=889
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4/214/2:205%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} A single extremely capable individual can manage an organization of any size, and our society has no shortage of such individuals. From this apex descends the familiar hierarchical pyramid. As an old Prussian Army saying went: who wishes to command, must first learn to obey.
	  
	  Note your reaction to this. You are well aware that any large corporation which adopted any management structure besides a simple hierarchy would be halfway already to bankruptcy court, and that simple hierarchical command is the difference between an army and a mob. In both these cases, there is a single individual at the apex of command, which is completely normal.
	  
	  However, in the terminology of government, this system would be described as an absolute dictatorship, or (once) an Oriental despotism, and you consider it the most dangerous possible design — one certain to practice sadistic, Kafkaesque mass murder. The salient examples, of course, are Stalin and Hitler.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4/226/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} My favorite analogy for official authority is the stellar cycle. If the authority of government is the temperature of the star, and the size of government is the size of the star, Washington is easily identifiable as a red giant, like Betelgeuse — enormous and cool.
	  
	  For former libertarians, such as myself, this inverse relationship is critical. The paradox is that weakening government makes it larger.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4/230/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Perhaps the most significant fallacious principle in the Anglo-American democratic mind is the principle of division of authority — immortalized by Montesquieu as the separation of powers. Montesquieu, of course, was an Anglophile, and he was head-over-heels in love with the supposed balance of powers created by the “Glorious” Revolution of 1688. To refute this principle, it should be sufficient to note that in the Britain of 2009, only one — at most — of Montesquieu’s three powers still has any power at all.
	  
	  The division of authority is simply the destruction of order. The Romans knew it as the political solecism of imperium in imperio, and Harvard Business School dreads it no less. There is no conceivable balance between competing authorities; they will fight until one kills the others, and even when they collaborate it is in the fashion of partners in crime.
	  
	  Of course, divided authority tends to be quite popular among those who divide the authority. Power is fun, and power shared three ways creates more total fun than power held by one. Note also the entropic quality of division: it is much easier to divide than to reunify. The stellar cycle is entropic, of course, as well.
	  
	  Democracy is a classic case of division of authority. It purports to dole out microscopic slivers of power equally to all subjects of the government. In fact this power is simply transferred to those who form, instruct, and organize large bodies of voters, whose average thoughts are unsophisticated by definition.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4/238/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} We must not be too harsh on the the advocates of divided authority, however. The principle is easily recognizable as what it is: a bad, but not completely ineffective, attempt to produce accountability. Lacking anything like the shareholder structure of the joint-stock republic — which is categorically distinct from democracy, most notably because the interests of all shareholders are identical, whereas the interests of democratic voters differ and conflict — division of authority seems like a decent compromise. That it weakens the State is obvious, but the more people you have in a room the more likely they are to agree on something sane.
	  
	  The great error of libertarians, as well as many liberals, progressives, etc, is to suppose that the weaker the State is, the freer its subjects are. The opposite is very nearly true. A weak government is a large government — and the smaller the State, the freer its subjects are. Every time you weaken your government, you give it another excuse to become larger.
	  
	  Essentially, big government is big because it is constantly competing with itself. Restore unified authority, clean the Augean stables, and the great dungheaps which exist only for the sake of themselves are washed out with the Orontes.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4/244/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} We can see this easily by looking at a level of weakness the US has not quite achieved: personal corruption. In a country where government officials take bribes, the principle of divided authority has reached the individual level. The bribetaker is personally sovereign, in a sense. His actions are not in the interest of the State as a whole, but the State as a whole did not just pull you over for driving 50 in a 55 zone. He did, and he wants a 500-peso note along with your driver’s license.
	  
	  In the US, not individuals but agencies of the State compete for power and importance. Each seeks to expand its own impact, budget, and personnel. If USG, tomorrow, were to find itself operated as a single authority, it would set quite a number of live coals under quite a number of superfluous agencies.
	  
	  There are many reasons that Plan Moldbug cannot happen, but this is perhaps the most salient. Our financial system cannot be rebooted, because there is no one in Washington with anywhere near the authority required to make any such decision. Even in FDR’s day it would have been a stretch, and the Beltway hasn’t spent the last 75 years turning into Betelgeuse for nothing.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4/262/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} So the conclusion we’ve come to about democratic government as a whole is oddly similar to our conclusion about the financial system. The conclusion is that it’s fatally broken, and needs to be replaced by something completely different. Even in Carlyle’s day, repair did not seem like an option. How less it is today! And still the dungheaps grow, the bats flit in and out, the stacks of paper molder. And we notice, with a chill: the whole damned thing is a colossal firetrap.
	  
	  And I have no solution at all to this problem. I am hardly the first to notice that Washington is broken beyond repair
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4/264/1:177%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Perhaps this is the simple beginning of wisdom: yes, this thing is broken; no, it is not going to fix itself; no, we cannot fix it, either; and yes, it is getting slowly but surely worse.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/14/2/4/2[filepos261272]/2/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Part 5
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=1509&bookpos=epubcfi%28/14/2/4/22/1:22%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Sovereign corporations are not to be liquidated. Sovereign liquidation means anarchy, and there is no political form more dangerous. In small doses or in large, anarchy is destruction of capital.
- Related: Related: ((67375e5b-e4d8-4a78-aa3f-d8bb9b3d6022))