tags:: [[Annotated-CalibreViewer]], [[Non-Fiction]]
isbn:: NA
date:: 2019
publisher:: Penguin Publishing Group
language:: NA
authors:: [[Scott Adams]]
format:: [epub](/home/boss/Vaults/gocryptfs1/Calibre/Calibre-Library/Scott Adams/Loserthink (1438)/Loserthink - Scott Adams.epub), [pdf](/home/boss/Vaults/gocryptfs1/Calibre/Calibre-Library/Scott Adams/Loserthink (1438)/Loserthink - Scott Adams.pdf)

- [[Synopsis]]
	- <b><b>What is loserthink?</b></b><br>If you've been on social media lately, or turned on your TV, you may have noticed there are a lot of dumb ideas floating around out there.<br>"We know when history will repeat and when it won't."<br>"We can tell the difference between evidence and coincidences."<br>"The simplest explanation is usually true."<br>"Stay in your channel." <br>Wrong, wrong, dangerous, and wrong!<br>These false beliefs are the result of what Scott Adams, the creator of the <i>Dilbert</i> comic and a lifelong student of group psychology, calls <i>loserthink.</i> Loserthink is the epidemic of sneaky mental habits trapping its victims in their own bubbles of reality. Even the smartest and most educated among us can slip into its seductive grasp. If we're not careful, loserthink would have us believe that every Trump supporter is a bigoted racist, addicts should be responsible for fixing the opioid epidemic, any form of gun control is a slippery slope to full...
- Finished [[2024-08-08 Thursday]]
- [Loserthink](calibre://show-book/Calibre-Library/1438)  {{renderer calibreViewer, special, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book}} {{renderer calibreHighlight, false, 2000, http://localhost:3296, Calibre-Library, 1438, epub}}
  lastsync:: Thu Aug 08 2024 18:07:42 GMT+0100 (British Summer Time)
	- # {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-4]/2/2[_idParaDest-5]/2[page_1]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Chapter 1: What is Loserthink?
	  collapsed:: true
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-4]/2/8/1:75%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Loserthink is about unproductive ways of thinking. You can be smart and well informed while at the same time being a flagrant loserthinker.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-4]/2/12/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} For example, a trained engineer learns a certain way of thinking about the world that overlaps but is different from how a lawyer, a philosopher, or an economist thinks. Having any one of those skill sets puts you way ahead in understanding the world and thinking about it productively.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-4]/2/38/1:86%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Before I introduced the term loserthink, what word would you have used to describe a smart person who has a mental blind spot caused by a lack of exposure across different fields? You would probably default to the closest word in your vocabulary, which might be stupid, dumb, idiot, and the like. I don’t have to tell you it’s hard to change someone’s mind after you call him an idiot.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-4]/2/40/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If you have a negative word for something, it will be easier to avoid it than if you don’t.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-4]/2/44/4/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} stupid refers to a person whereas loserthink applies to the technique.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-4]/2/44/1:287%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The loser part of loserthink refers to the outcome, not the DNA of the person involved.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-4]/2/50/1:261%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If you have been exposed to the thinking styles of only a few disciplines—let’s say history and philosophy—you would still have gaps in terms of understanding how economists and scientists see the world.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-4]/2/58/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If your experience in life has been concentrated in the arts, it would seem entirely reasonable to rely on the consensus of climate science experts.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-4]/2/62/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Now let’s say you had experience in economics and business, as I do. In those domains, anyone telling you they can predict the future in ten years with their complicated multivariate models is automatically considered a fraud.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-4]/2/66/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} You might be debating me in your mind right now and thinking that, unlike the field of finance, the scientific process drives out bias over time. Studies are peer reviewed, and experiments that can’t be reproduced are discarded.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-4]/2/68/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Is that what is happening?
		  
		  Here I draw upon my sixteen years working in corporate America. If my job involved reviewing a complicated paper from a peer, how much checking of the data and the math would I do when I am already overworked? Would I travel to the original measuring instruments all over the world and check their calibrations? Would I compare the raw data to the “adjusted” data that is used in the paper? Would I do a deep dive on the math and reasoning, or would I skim it for obvious mistakes? Unless scientists are a different kind of human being than the rest of us, they would intelligently cut corners whenever they think they could get away with it, just like everyone else. Assuming scientists are human, you would expect lots of peer-reviewed studies to be flawed. And that turns out to be the situation. As the New York Times reported in 2018, the peer review process is defective to the point of being laughable.2
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-4]/2/78/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Based on my life of experience across multiple fields, and especially with large organizations, I’ll bet no more than a handful of people in the world are true experts in measuring global temperatures. And given that the ocean controls something like 90 percent of the heat retention on the planet, do you believe we can measure the average ocean temperatures, both now and in our far distant history, to a precision necessary to know if a few degrees up or down have happened before, and at what rate? Maybe we can. I can’t rule it out. I’ll just say it doesn’t pass my sniff test, but I acknowledge that my sniffing is not science. I’d like to be wrong and learn that scientists can measure to that level of accuracy.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-4]/2/88/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Consider the skeptical argument about the alleged “seventeen-year pause” in warming from 1996 to 2014 that NASA satellites measured. Skeptics say the pause disproves human-driven climate change because CO2 was rising sharply in that time while temperatures were not. Climate scientists counter that criticism by saying you can’t draw any conclusions from looking at a “cherry-picked” period less than thirty years in duration because short-term natural variations can mask the CO2-caused warming that is happening on average over the long term. But climate scientists also tell us that our most recent thirty years are showing warming that is highly meaningful. How can both things be true?
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-4]/2/90/1:156%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} prediction models are not science. They are an intelligent combination of scientific thinking, math, human judgment, and incomplete data. That’s why there are lots of different climate models, all a bit different.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-4]/2/92/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If you have not studied the methods of magicians and scam artists, you might not recognize that climate forecast models fit a common scam model. The scam works by sending thousands of emails with, let’s say, three different stock predictions to random people while claiming your proprietary algorithm says those stocks will rise. If any one of the three stocks goes up, entirely by chance, the group that got that particular stock recommendation will think the algorithm works. Then the scammer sends another batch of three different stock predictions to subsets of the group that got the lucky guesses from the first round.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-4]/2/100/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If all you know is how many times someone hit a target, it is loserthink to judge how accurate they are. You also need to know how many times they missed.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-4]/2/96/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Similar to the stock scam, climate scientists discard climate models that don’t fit with observations. The public doesn’t hear about the models that are discarded. If you start with hundreds of different predictions, and you discard the ones that miss their initial predictions, you are nearly guaranteed to end up with some models that seem to predict the future, but only by chance.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-4]/2/110/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} When lots of money and lots of complexity are in play, fraud is nearly guaranteed.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-4]/2/108/1:153%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Take, for example, the 2019 Duke University settlement in which the university agreed to pay $112.5 million for repeatedly submitting research grant requests with falsified data. Duke had a lot of grant money at stake, and lots of complexity in which to hide bad behavior. Fraud was nearly guaranteed.3
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-4]/2/112/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If you have been on this planet for a long time, as I have, and you pay attention to science, you know that the consensus of scientists on the topic of nutrition was wrong for decades. The most striking example of that involved the introduction of the USDA’s food guide pyramid in 1992, which recommended that consumers eat more bread, cereal, rice, and pasta than vegetables and fruits. That is opposite what nutrition experts recommend today. Critics make a compelling case that the food industry influenced nutrition science and the USDA’s recommendations to the point of making nutrition “science” a complete joke. But it was a joke the public thought was science until we learned it wasn’t.4
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-4]/2/114/1:430%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The problem, which I learned the hard way, was that what the experts “knew” about nutrition kept changing. Over time, it became painfully obvious to me that nutrition science wasn’t science at all. It was some unholy marriage of industry influence, junk science, and government. Any one of those things is bad, but when you put those three forces together, people die.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-4]/2/116/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Scientists were wrong when they predicted we had already reached so-called peak oil. Scientists were wrong about the ozone layer being beyond repair (the hole is shrinking).6 Experts were wrong that the year 2000 computer bug would crash computer systems worldwide (it got fixed in time).
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-4]/2/118/1:205%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Whenever you have money, reputations, power, ego, and complexity in play, it is irrational to assume you are seeing objective science. The fields of psychology and economics have shown us in a thousand ways that people are influenced by all sorts of forces while generally not being aware of how much they are being biased.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-4]/2/122/2[page_16]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If you have a background in economics and business, you might recognize that the cost of scrubbing CO2 from the air—should we ever need to do so—will likely drop in cost every year with new technology. And that means that waiting a few years to get serious on funding CO2 air-scrubbers is likely the smarter play than going hard at it now when the technology is super expensive and less efficient than future versions are likely to be. Starting later could easily get you to the point you want sooner and cheaper.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/12/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-4]/2/128/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Climate scientists might be 100 percent right when they say the planet is warming at a dangerous rate and that CO2 is the main driver. I am not qualified to check their work. But I am qualified to say that the way climate science is presented to the public is not credible to people who have my type of experience, even if it turns out that most climate scientists are right.
	- # {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/14/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-5]/2/2[_idParaDest-8]/2[page_20]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Chapter 2: Political Warming
	  collapsed:: true
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/14/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-5]/2/6/1:109%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If you live in the modern world, there’s a 99 percent chance you are living in a bubble-reality just like your neighbors. And you might be confused about why people who are in different bubbles can’t see the wisdom and truth in everything you say. Your bubble doesn’t have a communication channel to the other bubbles. When you try to convince others that your worldview is true, the other bubbles put up their shields and don’t let your point of view in. They have their own realities and there is little you can do to change that from the outside unless you are a trained and experienced persuader.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/14/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-5]/2/14/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The best way to get the sort of attention that drives viewership and profits today is with provocative fake news, which in my way of thinking includes not only factual inaccuracies but also biased coverage and emotion-based presentations. Bias usually reveals itself with something I call opinion stacking. That involves news programming that involves panels of pundits who hold the same biased opinions, joined by only one relatively unpersuasive pundit for the other side.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/14/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-5]/2/16/1:461%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} From the moment technology allowed us to know which kinds of content influenced viewership the most, the old business model of the news industry was dead media walking. From that point through today, the business model of the press changed from presenting information to manipulating brains.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/14/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-5]/2/18/2[page_22]:22%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} no one in this story is evil. Everyone is acting according to the well-accepted rules of capitalism, trying to maximize the outcomes for shareholders and their own careers. The main thing that changed was our ability to measure what kinds of content worked best.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/14/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-5]/2/20/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The inevitable outcome of the press having a business model that rewards brain manipulation versus accuracy is what I call political warming. As the press becomes increasingly skilled at stimulating the emotion centers in our brains, one should expect the public to be in a continuous state of fight-or-flight anxiety. We’re more scared and angry than I imagine we ever have been, at least since World War II. And that means bigger storms ahead in the form of protests and divisiveness.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/14/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-5]/2/22/1:113%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} the country is becoming more divided and we are turning on each other in a way we have never seen before. The loserthink way of looking at the situation is that we need to try harder to be nice to each other. But that prescription misdiagnoses the problem. People did not suddenly become different in a fundamental way. The business model of the press manipulated our brains until our emotions overwhelmed whatever traces of rationality we started with. You can’t fix that by trying harder to be nice. The influence of the press is too strong, and all because they learned to measure the impact of their actions with extraordinary precision.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/14/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-5]/2/26/1:202%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} nearly every major story is exaggerated to the point of falsehood, with the intention of scaring the public.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/14/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-5]/2/28/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} All the doom-and-gloom in the press, and on social media, could give you the impression the world is in big trouble. The reality is almost directly the opposite: things have never been better for humanity, and the future looks incredible too.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/14/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-5]/2/30/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Being absolutely right and being spectacularly wrong feel exactly the same. That’s the right frame of mind for this book.
	- # {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-6]/2/2[_idParaDest^-10]/2[page_24]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Chapter 3: Thinking Like a Psychologist
	  collapsed:: true
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-6]/2/6/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If you have a background in psychology, you are probably better equipped than the average person in seeing past the common illusions that influence our perceptions.
		- ## The Mind Reading Illusion
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-6]/2/8[_idParaDest^-12]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} THE MIND READING ILLUSION
			  If your complaint about other people involves your belief that you can deduce their inner thoughts, you might be in a mental prison. We humans think we are good judges of what others are thinking. We are not. In fact, we are dreadful at it. But people being people, we generally believe we are good at it while also believing other people are not.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-6]/2/26/2/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} PERSON 1: I want healthcare insurance for all citizens.
			  
			  PERSON 2: Your real goal is total socialism.
			  
			  PERSON 1: No, I like capitalism, but with social safety nets in some areas.
			  
			  PERSON 2: Nice try, Karl Marx. I know what you really want. You’re not fooling anyone!
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-6]/2/22/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If your opinion depends on knowing the inner thoughts of a stranger, or even someone close to you, then you might be in a mental prison. You can only know what people say and do, and even that knowledge is likely to be incomplete or out of context.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-6]/2/38/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} People who know the word articulate is offensive to African-Americans probably assumed DeSantis knew it too. People who had never heard of that word being an insult to African-Americans probably assumed DeSantis didn’t know it either. In effect, both groups acted as if they could read DeSantis’s inner thoughts based on the assumption DeSantis’s mind is similar to theirs.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-6]/2/62/1:235%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} keep these two rules in mind:
			  
			  If your opinion depends on reliably knowing another person’s inner thoughts, you might be experiencing loserthink.
			  
			  And . . .
			  
			  If an ordinary explanation fits the facts, but you have chosen an extraordinary interpretation instead, you might have too much confidence in your opinion.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-6]/2/80/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} We like to think we can judge people’s relative goodness and evilness by observing their actions, but that only works with the easy stuff, such as crime and bullying, and then only when we are sure of the facts. A more typical situation is that people have different ideas of how to reach a greater good in this world. You might think capitalism is the only way to a better world, while someone else thinks we should focus more on fairness and sharing, which you might call socialism.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-6]/2/82/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If you think you can gaze into the soul of a stranger and see evil, you might be experiencing a loserthink hallucination.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-6]/2/84/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Socialists and Racists
			  If you are dismissing your critics with labels they would not assign to themselves, you might be engaged in loserthink. If you call people who want everyone to have good healthcare a bunch of socialists, or you call people who want strong immigration control racists, you are not part of the rational debate. People who have good arguments use them. People who do not have good arguments try to win by labeling.
			  
			  If your criticism depends on assigning labels instead of cause-and-effect reasoning, you are engaged in loserthink.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-6]/2/90[_idParaDest^-13]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} OCCAM’S RAZOR
		  collapsed:: true
			- Occam’s razor is the idea that the simplest explanation of events is usually the right one. The problem with that line of thinking is that it is complete nonsense
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-6]/2/100/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} In science, the simplest explanation that fits the facts is preferred. In life, we are all under the illusion that our explanations of things are the simplest ones.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-6]/2/102[_idParaDest^-14]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} PROJECTION
		  collapsed:: true
			- In the field of psychology there is a phenomenon called projection. The simple description of projection is that people accuse others of having the flaws the accuser possesses and the target might not. For example, a liar might accuse an honest person of being a liar, and might actually believe it. Or a thief might accuse others of stealing—that sort of thing.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-6]/2/108/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} I don’t believe the average person can tell the difference between an opinion based on observation and something we would properly label projection. If I accuse you of being a liar, it might be because I’m a liar who is projecting, but it could easily be that I’m right and I have caught you in more than one lie. Those situations look the same, and realistically we’re usually not in a position to do fact-checking.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-6]/2/118[_idParaDest^-15]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} THE EGO PROBLEM
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-6]/2/124/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} When we humans hold a higher opinion of our abilities than the facts warrant, that mindset can lead to better results in sports, test taking, romance, our social lives, careers, and more. That’s because confidence is strongly correlated with success. The sweet spot for self-confidence involves operating with a belief that you can do more than the available evidence suggests, but not so much more that it would be crazy.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-6]/2/136/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Breathing and body posture are also huge variables in controlling your confidence in a given situation.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-6]/2/138/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Your body language will also influence your ego and confidence.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-6]/2/140/1:196%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} This is especially true for job interviews. Asking smart questions will make you look like a star compared to anyone who simply responds to questions. When you become a good question-asker, you look like the most confident person in the room
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-6]/2/142/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Learn to make eye contact and to smile.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-6]/2/146/1:179%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If you are fit, you will look more attractive, and that will make you feel more confident in any situation.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-6]/2/158/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Life will serve up a variety of situations in which you might want to dial down your ego. For example, when you find yourself in a disagreement at work or in your social life, it can be helpful to remind yourself that the other person might be right this time. This is one of the reasons I recommend keeping track of how often you have been certain about something and later learned you were dead wrong.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-6]/2/164/1:290%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Don’t hesitate to fake humility when the situation calls for it. But don’t overdo it. On the whole, people prefer confident people.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-6]/2/170/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} A PERSON WHO considers ego a reflection of self, instead of a tool that one can dial up or down as needed, has fewer pathways to success. Imagine a potential boss asking if you would be willing to start in a position that is below your current job status but has more potential for growth if you perform well. The person who sees ego as who they are will reject an offer that feels insulting. The person who sees ego as a tool might take that job and have confidence it will lead to something far better.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-6]/2/174/1:316%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} People who want to create “art” for a living do not want to hear what the public wants. They want to hear that their ideas are amazing, even when they aren’t. That’s ego. And when your ego makes your decisions for you, that’s loserthink.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-6]/2/184/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} When you are in an environment that is so casually cruel, people who see ego as a reflection of self are tempted to retreat. But I see ego as a tool, which in this case allowed me to gain experience in a new medium, get a lot of exposure, and build my talent stack. Today, most of the major news media companies follow me on Periscope, and so do a lot of political players at all levels.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-6]/2/204/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If you think ego is who you are, as opposed to a tool you can dial up and down as needed, you might be experiencing loserthink.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-6]/2/208/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Put yourself in potentially embarrassing situations on a regular basis for practice. If you get embarrassed as planned, watch how one year later you are still alive. Maybe you even have a funny story because of it.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-6]/2/212/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Note how other people’s embarrassments mean little to you when you are an observer. That’s how much your embarrassments mean to them: nothing.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-6]/2/214/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Using those two techniques, I have evolved from being embarrassed about just about everything to having almost no sense of shame whatsoever. Like most things in life, practice matters.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-6]/2/216[_idParaDest^-16]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} FOCUSING ON WHAT IS WRONG
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-6]/2/218/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Human nature forces us to focus most of our energy and attention on whatever is going wrong in our world. You wouldn’t want to change that human trait because it is a big part of what allows us to survive and improve. When I pick up my mobile phone, I no longer see a modern miracle of technology and human ingenuity. I see a device that keeps interrupting me.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-6]/2/232/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Our semi-evolved brains can’t handle all the things that are going right in our world because that would involve consciously processing far more information than we can handle. It makes sense that we evolved this way. If your cave-dwelling ancestors were enamored with the beauty of the scenery instead of, let’s say, the herd of carnivorous dinosaurs stampeding their way, they would not have survived to create the miracle that is you.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-6]/2/244/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} On top of our instinct to notice problems, the business model of the press involves making you think about everything that is going wrong in the world. It isn’t news if someone does a good job and gets a good outcome. Or at least it isn’t the exciting kind of news that gets clicks.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-6]/2/248/1:509%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If all you see is the negative, while those around you seem to be experiencing optimism, that’s a signal you might be in a mental prison.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-6]/2/248/1:283%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} In reality, rarely does everything go wrong, and humans are quite handy at avoiding the worst-case scenarios when they see them developing. Persistent negativity is a harsh mental prison.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-6]/2/250/2/2[page_50]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If you can’t think of anything good about a situation, and yet you observe that others can, you might be experiencing loserthink.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-6]/2/254/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} It is helpful to think of your mind as having limited shelf space. If you fill that space with negative thoughts, it will set your mental filters to negativity and poor health, and there will be no space left for healthy, productive, and uplifting thoughts. You can control your mental shelf space—to a degree—by manipulating your physical surroundings.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-6]/2/256/1:341%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Exposure to horrible and frightening thoughts can elevate your stress, which releases cortisol. The Mayo Clinic website explains that cortisol “curbs functions that would be nonessential or detrimental in a fight-or-flight situation. It alters immune system responses and suppresses the digestive system, the reproductive system and growth processes. This complex natural alarm system also communicates with regions of your brain that control mood, motivation and fear.”5
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-6]/2/258/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} That’s what you do to yourself when you expose your mind to unnecessary negativity, such as pharmaceutical commercials, sad movies, sad music, and sad news.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-6]/2/262/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If you allow your mental shelf space to fill up with negative thoughts, you are punishing yourself with an unhealthy form of loserthink.
	- # {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-7]/2/4[_idParaDest^-18]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Chapter 4: Thinking Like an Artist
	  collapsed:: true
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-7]/2/6/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} FAILURE OF IMAGINATION
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-7]/2/12/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Have you ever been angered by someone’s apparent selfishness, sloth, lying, incompetence, rudeness, or criminality and later realized there was a perfectly good reason for whatever they did, and it wasn’t for any of those reasons? That situation describes about half of most people’s experience of life. We’re continually making bad assumptions about why things happened.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-7]/2/16/1:11%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} we can’t always tell the difference between the people who are far smarter than us and the people who are dumber. Both groups make choices we can’t understand.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-7]/2/18/1:144%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} So when a person who is otherwise smart says something that sounds dumb to me, I remind myself that, in this situation, I might be the dog.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-7]/2/46/1:21%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} I like going to Las Vegas to work on my book and enjoy the food. Other people go to Vegas for the gambling, drinking, and anonymous sex. One of the most normal situations in the world is that people like the same thing (in this case Las Vegas) for wildly different reasons. In politics too, people can support the same candidate for wildly different reasons. To imagine people like a person or a place for the same reasons is a serious lack of imagination and a denial of the most common experience in our shared reality.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-7]/2/60/1:229%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} n time, we come to understand how easy it is to be confident in our opinions and yet spectacularly wrong. Or at least we do if we have been keeping score. And that’s exactly what I recommend doing. Make a mental note every time you find yourself being wrong about something you thought you couldn’t possibly be wrong about. Focusing on your track record can prime you to understand there can be lots of different explanations for a set of facts, and you can’t always think of them all.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-7]/2/64/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If you can’t imagine any other explanation for a set of facts, it might be because you are bad at imagining things.
	- # {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-8]/2/4[_idParaDest^-20]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Chapter 5: Thinking Like an Historian
	  collapsed:: true
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB^-8]/2/8/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The first way history is not real is that whoever is in charge gets to write history any way they like. And the way they like it is whatever way keeps them in power and looking awesome.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-8]/2/18/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If you believe you learned an accurate version of history in school, you are probably wrong.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-8]/2/24/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If bad memories are keeping you from being happy, try crowding out the destructive memories with new and interesting thoughts. Stay busy, in mind and body, and time is on your side.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-8]/2/20/2[page_62]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} There is a second and more profound way in which history keeps us in mental prison: it can have too strong a hold on us. If you can learn to release that hold, another wall of your mental prison will fall.
		  
		  In my case, my childhood was horrific in ways I don’t like to discuss
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-8]/2/22/1:206%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The past didn’t exist anywhere except in my memories, but that was enough to ruin my present happiness. I learned that I could control those destructive thoughts by crowding them out with work, intellectual pursuits, and other distractions. Over time, the memories faded from lack of attention
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-8]/2/36/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} History (even the fake kind) can be useful for persuading others through guilt. But don’t make the mistake of persuading yourself that history should matter to your choices today.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-8]/2/56/1:188%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} We should not forget or minimize the past, as it serves us in a number of ways. But we can choose to focus on the paths forward instead of the footprints behind us
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-8]/2/58/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Focusing on the past when the present offers sufficient paths to success is loserthink. It is better to focus on your own systems for success, and when you succeed, watch how winning fixes most problems.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-8]/2/60[_idParaDest-21]/2[page_66]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} DOES HISTORY REPEAT?
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-8]/2/70/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} There are three important things to know about human beings in order to understand why we do the things we do.
			  
			  Humans use pattern recognition to understand their world.
			  
			  Humans are very bad at pattern recognition.
			  
			  And they don’t know it.
			  Yes and no. There are dumb people who believe in weird coincidences like horoscopes, astrology and lizard people. But on the other hand there is noting female psychology, black criminality and Jewish machiavellianism.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-8]/2/80[_idParaDest-22]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} “HISTORY REPEATS”
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-8]/2/82/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} American philosopher George Santayana allegedly said some version of “Those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it.” That often gets shortened to “History repeats.”
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-8]/2/100/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} One day my publisher explained to me that nonfiction books tend to follow the same pattern that mine had. The authors who consistently wrote one bestseller after another were fiction authors. Consumers of fiction want more of the kind of writing they like, only next time with different characters and stories.
			  
			  Consumers of nonfiction books apparently think some version of “I already know what that author has to say.” Especially when the topic seems to be in the same domain as the previous book. The defense against that pattern, for nonfiction writers, is to write books on entirely new topics if the audience lets you get away with it, the way Malcolm Gladwell and Michael Lewis do. I use the same strategy now.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-8]/2/106/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Consider a person who has been married and divorced twice. If that person gets married again, does history suggest a divorce is likely? Or does history suggest that third marriages are more likely to last than first or second marriages? On top of that, what makes this particular couple typical enough to compare to the average? For example, if one of them is a sex addict, isn’t that a more predictive variable than the third-marriage pattern? Beats me. The point is that we generally have more than one historical pattern in play. And we usually don’t know which ones will be the most predictive.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-8]/2/118/1:374%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} That’s like the third-marriage pattern. People learn (eventually) what didn’t work last time and so they modify their approach. And if the new approach fails too, they try something else next time. Technologists and marketers call this A/B testing, in which you are heading steadily toward a good outcome while appearing to observers as if you are failing most of the way, at least until something works. A pattern of consistent failure looks a lot like A/B testing that isn’t yet complete. One is bad news and the other is good news about to happen. They look the same.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-8]/2/140/2/2[page_73]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} History doesn’t repeat, at least not in any way you can use to accurately predict the future. (The exceptions are simple situations.)
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-8]/2/142[_idParaDest-23]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} THE SLIPPERY SLOPE
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-8]/2/144/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The slippery slope argument bothers me more than most forms of loserthink. It is generally presented as an argument that things will continue going in the same direction until they go too far and some form of harm is done.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-8]/2/152/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} There’s also no objective way to know when a slippery slope is more progress than problem. It depends which side you are on. Your slippery slope might be my progress. I like progress, and I don’t want you to stop my progress by labeling it a slippery slope.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-8]/2/154/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The slippery slope isn’t a concept worthy of using for persuasion, or for any other purpose. It isn’t predictive because there is generally a counterforce ahead. And if the counterforce is not evident, or it seems too weak, there’s a good chance a stronger counterforce will materialize specifically to stop the slippery slope.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-8]/2/156/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Belief in slippery slopes is loserthink. It is more useful to look at forces and counterforces to see where things are likely to end up.
			  True to an extent. I think slippery slope is more likely to point that things will keep progressing too far in a direction - there will eventually be pushback but the damage will have already been done to force the lesson learned e.g. communism deaths, etc
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-8]/2/158[_idParaDest-24]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} PRIVACY IS OVERRATED
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-8]/2/162/2[page_75]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} I think most people would agree that the pivotal step in the advancement of gay rights involved brave activists “coming out” about their sexual orientation and making it safe, in time, for others to do so. You could say the LGBTQ community traded privacy for equality. They didn’t give up all of their privacy—only the part that kept them in a social prison. That’s the clearest historical example of privacy being more of a problem than a solution. Once the LGBTQ community embraced that truth—that privacy was their prison, not their protection—they had a path out. It wasn’t easy, and it might never be easy. But it’s a winning path
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-8]/2/170/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} When my brother started sharing his condition—and we soon found out my late father had it too—everything changed about the way I felt about it. I was no longer the lone freak. I was just one of the people with this condition, which I now had a name for.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-8]/2/178/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If you’re a weirdo in any way (and I say this with love), you can probably find similar weirdos if you stop hiding. And life will be better for all of you, assuming your weirdness is legal.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-8]/2/180/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} I’m not antiprivacy. I take it as a given that there are some situations in which society is better off with a degree of privacy. My point here is that we have a reflexive desire for privacy that is not too far in type from our reflexive desire to eat junk food. The fact that we want privacy is not related to how good it is for us. My examples with LGBTQ and shy bladder “coming out” make the case.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-8]/2/182/2[page_78]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Now consider what it would mean to healthcare outcomes if our lifestyle choices, our health records, our DNA, and even our current health indicators were routinely collected and stored. In this imaginary scenario, let’s say the information was private from your neighbors, but available in raw data form without your identification to scientists. Armed with that kind of useful health data, I would expect healthcare costs to drop and outcomes to improve.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-8]/2/186/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If you think more privacy is always better, that is a case of loserthink. Every situation is different. Sometimes privacy is the problem that prevents the solution.
	- # {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/22/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-9]/2/4[_idParaDest-26]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Chapter 6: Thinking Like an Engineer
	  collapsed:: true
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/22/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-9]/2/6/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} PROFESSIONAL JEALOUSY
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/22/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-9]/2/14/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Let’s label this phenomenon professional jealousy, although there are a variety of motivations for mocking the last employee on the job. For example, mocking the last programmer is a good way to boost your perceived value, by comparing your awesomeness to the prior employee’s uselessness. And the best part is that the target of your criticism is usually already gone and unable to defend against the charges. As a general rule, it’s always smarter to criticize people who aren’t around.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/22/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-9]/2/20/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If you are wondering how skeptical you should be about expert advice on complicated issues, keep in mind that the next expert probably has no respect for the last expert. And vice versa.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/22/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-9]/2/22[_idParaDest-27]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} SEPARATING CAUSE AND SOLUTION
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/22/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-9]/2/28/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If your home were repeatedly burglarized, most of us would say the fault is with the criminals. But the solution might not involve criminals at all. The solution might involve, for example, getting a dog, better door locks, an alarm system, and an NRA sticker for your front door. Loserthink pairs the solution with the blame.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/22/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-9]/2/34/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} A common form of this loserthink is the “Who started it?” question. That’s another way to assign responsibility.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/22/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-9]/2/36/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The best solution to a problem is often unrelated to who is at fault. It is loserthink to believe otherwise.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/22/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-9]/2/46[_idParaDest-28]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} ONE-VARIABLE ILLUSION
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/22/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-9]/2/48/1:172%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} it is common for more than one variable to be important at the same time.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/22/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-9]/2/58/1:238%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} So when you find yourself saying Clinton lost because of one variable, be aware that you are talking nonsense. All the variables had to tip the way they did to get the result we got.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/22/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-9]/2/60/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If you analyze a complicated situation with multiple variables in play, and you conclude that only one of them was decisive, there’s a good chance you are practicing loserthink.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/22/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-9]/2/62/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} You will be most tempted to default to one-variable thinking in the following situations in your life:
			  
			  Figuring out why a relationship isn’t working
			  
			  Understanding the motivation of friends and family
			  
			  Making business decisions in complicated situations
	- # {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-10]/2/2[_idParaDest-29]/2[page_87]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Chapter 7: Thinking Like a Leader
	  collapsed:: true
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-10]/2/8[_idParaDest-31]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} THE DIRECTIONAL TRUTH FILTER
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-10]/2/12/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Truth has two important dimensions: 1) accuracy, and 2) direction. If you don’t know which of those dimensions is more important, you might be in a mental prison.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-10]/2/14/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If you are dealing with math, engineering, science, or medicine—to pick a few examples—you want your facts to be as accurate as possible. But even in those fields, it often matters more that you get the direction right.
			  
			  For example, if an engineer determines that a new type of material would fail in one day under normal use, it doesn’t matter too much if that estimate is wrong by a month. What matters is that the new material is unsuitable for daily use.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-10]/2/24/1:323%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The reality, which science has proven in lots of different ways, is that we routinely make irrational decisions and then try to rationalize them. That’s why the people who disagree with you so often appear to be not just wrong, but totally bonkers. And importantly, they think exactly the same about you.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-10]/2/32/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If you find yourself complaining that a leader’s claims are not passing the fact-checking, you might be technically correct. But your accurate observations won’t necessarily matter in any important way. What will matter is whether or not that leader is persuading you and others in the right direction.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-10]/2/36/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If you find yourself obsessing over the accuracy of facts versus the direction those facts will lead you, you might be in a mental prison.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-10]/2/38[_idParaDest-32]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} CONFUSING HYPERBOLE WITH LEGITIMATE OPINION
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-10]/2/50/2[page_92]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If you try to build bombs or chemical weapons in your home, and the government finds out, they will send people with guns to fix that situation.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-10]/2/54/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} It is loserthink to take political hyperbole literally.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-10]/2/58/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} It is loserthink to attack an opponent by acting as dumb as they act. It might feel good, but it isn’t a winning strategy.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-10]/2/60[_idParaDest-33]/2[page_93]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} SYSTEM VERSUS GOALS
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-10]/2/64/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Leaders understand that a good system involves doing something on a regular basis to improve your odds of good outcomes, even if you don’t know exactly what the outcome will be.
			  
			  For example, going to college and continuously learning new skills prepares you for lots of different opportunities, but you can’t always predict where that will lead. If you develop good systems for improving your diet and fitness, that can help you in your health, personal life, and even career, but not in ways you can exactly predict.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-10]/2/72/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} When it comes to your personal life, business life, and political opinions, it makes sense to favor systems over goals whenever that is practical. A goal gives you one way to win, whereas a system can surface lots of winning paths, some of which you never could have imagined.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-10]/2/76/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} For example, in the United States we have lots of ideas for improving healthcare. And people talk about these various plans as if we should pick the best one and implement it. That is an example of bad thinking. The smarter approach is to admit we don’t know which plans are the best and then find ways to test them small. Maybe one city or one small state wants to try it first. Ideally, different places would try different solutions so we someday are in a position to compare. Testing small and tracking results is a system.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-10]/2/78/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Goals are for loserthinkers. Systems are for winners.
	- # {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/26/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-11]/2/2[_idParaDest-34]/2[page_95]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Chapter 8: Thinking Like a Scientist
	  collapsed:: true
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/26/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-11]/2/6/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} COINCIDENCES
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/26/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-11]/2/40/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Sometimes coincidences tell you something useful. But 90 percent of the time they mislead you. Never be too confident about an opinion that depends solely on interpreting a coincidence.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/26/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-11]/2/42[_idParaDest-36]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} ANECDOTAL EVIDENCE
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/26/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-11]/2/38/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} For example, if you suspect a romantic partner of lying, suddenly you see signs of it everywhere, even if those signals are false. And if you think a particular plan in your workplace is a bad one, you will see all kinds of signals you are right, even when you are not. The more you care about a topic, the more susceptible you are to assigning meaning to coincidences. And if the situation is rich with variables, you will have plenty from which to choose.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/26/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-11]/2/44/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} One of the most common forms of loserthink involves treating individual situations as though they represent an overall pattern or trend. When this sort of observational “evidence” is in play, the term for it is anecdotal, meaning it comes from your unstructured observations as opposed to scientific or other credible data. And therefore it should not be deemed persuasive.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/26/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-11]/2/50/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If you are reaching a general conclusion about a big topic by looking at anecdotal evidence, you are engaging in loserthink.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/26/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-11]/2/52[_idParaDest-37]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} ASK YOURSELF: “WHAT IF THE OPPOSITE IS TRUE?”
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/26/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-11]/2/54/1:194%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} amous investor Charlie Munger, best known as Warren Buffett’s business partner, uses a version of this method to look at investments; instead of asking how they might succeed, he first tries to understand what failing would look like in this situation, and how to avoid it.2
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/26/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-11]/2/62/2/2[page_102]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Always ask yourself if the opposite of your theory could be true. Doing so keeps you humble and less susceptible to bias until you get to the truth of the situation.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/26/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-11]/2/64[_idParaDest-38]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} JUDGING A GROUP BY ITS WORST MEMBERS
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/26/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-11]/2/68/1:22%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Democrats are accusing Republicans of being racists because some of them are. Meanwhile, Republicans are accusing Democrats of being socialists, criminals, and anarchists because some of them are.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/26/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-11]/2/72/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If you find yourself believing that several million people in your own country share a common set of despicable traits, despite overwhelming evidence to the contrary, you might be engaging in loserthink that will make you less happy and less effective.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/26/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-11]/2/78/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Don’t believe that every member of a group is as bad as its worst 5 percent. If you do, you’re probably among the worst 5 percent of whatever groups you are in.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/26/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-11]/2/80[_idParaDest-39]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} PROVING A NEGATIVE
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/26/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-11]/2/82/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If any part of your argument depends on asking critics to “prove it isn’t true,” you are thinking like a cult member. Generally speaking, it isn’t possible to prove things don’t exist.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/26/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-11]/2/92/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Rarely is it possible to prove something isn’t true. But sometimes we can prove things are true.
	- # {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/28/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-12]/2/2[_idParaDest-40]/2[page_105]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Chapter 9: Thinking Like an Entrepreneur
	  collapsed:: true
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/28/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-12]/2/12/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} You don’t have to smoke marijuana to experience couch lock. We’ve all experienced times when we wanted to get up and do something useful but we couldn’t talk ourselves into it. It can happen when you are tired, unmotivated, shy, anxious, or even depressed. Your body sits there like a bag of potatoes while your helpless brain thinks that getting up and doing something would be a good idea. For some mysterious reason, your brain can’t give the order to your body to make it get off the couch. You might know you need to make a phone call or take a class to further your life ambitions, but for some reason you don’t do it.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/28/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-12]/2/16/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The secret to thwarting couch lock of any sort is to stop imagining everything you need to do, and start imagining the smallest step that you can do without much real effort. If you feel you can’t talk yourself into standing up and doing something that needs to get done, talk yourself into moving your pinky finger. Then move it.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/28/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-12]/2/26/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} In 1988, I decided to pivot from my stalled corporate career to become a cartoonist. But how does one become a cartoonist? Where do you start? What do you do first? I had no idea. The enormity of the challenge was a huge mental obstacle. So I did the smallest task I could talk myself into doing. I drove to the local art supply store and bought some high-quality pens and paper for drawing. That was all I did that day to begin working on my long-term career objective.
		  
		  Later that week, I sat down with my pens and paper and started doodling, mostly to test the quality of the materials and to see how much I liked them. And that was all I did that day.
		  
		  I decided to set my alarm clock half an hour earlier than normal from that day on so I would have time to draw some comics, for practice, and drink coffee before work. That became my morning ritual. Each step was tiny, but they added up. By 1989, I had assembled enough microsteps to get exactly where I wanted to be. That year, Dilbert started running in newspapers across the country.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/28/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-12]/2/24/1:508%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} figure out the first microstep in your desired pathway that is simple enough that you are willing to do it
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/28/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-12]/2/38/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Learn to think in microsteps. If you are experiencing couch lock, try wiggling one finger. Then build from there.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/28/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-12]/2/42[_idParaDest-42]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} STAYING IN YOUR LANE
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/28/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-12]/2/48/1:226%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The world as we know it was engineered, designed, and built by people who left their lane and tried something outside their temporary skill stack. They figured it out as they went.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/28/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-12]/2/52/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If you happen to be one of the best in the world at some specific skill, such as sports, music, or science—and you like what you do—it might make perfect sense to “stay in your lane” and milk that situation for all it is worth. But most of us are not the best in the world, or anywhere near it, at any particular skill. If that describes you, I recommend leaving your lane often—even at the risk of embarrassment—to pick up new skills and new ways to see the world
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/28/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-12]/2/64/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Sticking with what you know ensures you stay where you are. Take some chances. Leave your lane and build some skills.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/28/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-12]/2/52/1:466%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Here’s a list of skills I have sampled, as opposed to mastered, over my lifetime:
			  collapsed:: true
				- Economics
				- Business
				- Management
				- Sales
				- Psychology
				- Hypnosis
				- Programming
				- Commercial lending
				- Project management
				- Public speaking
				- Design
				- Art
				- Writing
				- Television production
				- Negotiating
				- Budgeting and finance
				- Persuasion
				- Entrepreneurship
				- Marketing
				- Publishing
				- Social media
				- Video editing
				- Photoshop
				- Engineering
				- Drumming
				- Cartooning
				- Political punditry
				- Livestreaming
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/28/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-12]/2/66[_idParaDest-43]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} PERSONAL CONTROL
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/28/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-12]/2/72/1:608%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} When you spend time every day doing something productive, whether that involves learning something useful or exercising, for example, you gain a sense of control over your reality. And that sense of control can be both motivating and satisfying, which helps you do more of what works.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/28/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-12]/2/74/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} At the other extreme, people who are consistently unsuccessful often believe they are victims of life, although the details of that victimhood can differ.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/28/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-12]/2/78/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} You can figure out which group you are in by asking yourself what is keeping you from achieving your objectives in life. Is the first answer that comes to mind something about your own efforts? Or did you immediately think about an obstacle that life has put in your way? If you take full responsibility for your outcomes, even while knowing much of it depends on luck, that’s how rich people think. If you blame something beyond your direct control, you’re probably engaged in loserthink, and your outcomes will reflect it.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/28/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-12]/2/86/1:6%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} notable authors in the getting-your-mind-right genre are Tony Robbins, Tim Ferriss, James Altucher, Seth Godin, and Mike Cernovich
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/28/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-12]/2/88/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} You can learn to think like a rich person by consuming books, blog posts, and podcasts from the authors who can teach you how. If this sort of reading isn’t your thing, make it your thing, one microstep at a time.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/28/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-12]/2/90[_idParaDest-44]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} HUMILITY AND TESTING
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/28/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-12]/2/94/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If you happen to be a human being—and many of my readers are—you are wrong about all sorts of things more often than you admit, and more often than you remember.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/28/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-12]/2/104/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Capitalism is similar to both science and fishing in that it is largely a failure machine. Most startups fail, for example, and most companies eventually go out of business, one way or another. But while all that failing is happening, employees are getting paid, vendors are selling products and services to the doomed business while it lasts, and the economy chugs along. You only need a small percentage of companies to succeed in order to have a strong economy.1
				- Glenn Kessler, “Do Nine out of 10 New Businesses Fail, as Rand Paul Claims?,” *Washington Post*, January 27, 2014, [www.washingtonpost.com/news/fact-checker/wp/2014/01/27/do-9-out-of-10-new-businesses-fail-as-rand-paul-claims/?utm_term=.edc51535420f](http://www.washingtonpost.com/news/fact-checker/wp/2014/01/27/do-9-out-of-10-new-businesses-fail-as-rand-paul-claims/?utm_term=.edc51535420f).
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/28/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-12]/2/106/1:382%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} And it’s a good thing this sort of irrationality exists, because otherwise people wouldn’t take risks and the economy would fall apart.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/28/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-12]/2/110/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Our irrational confidence makes sense if you assume humans evolved to have traits that help us survive. Our world rewards action over inaction, at least in the average sense. The entrepreneur who tries ten startups has a reasonable chance of making it big with at least one. But the person who doesn’t try anything at all is unlikely to succeed. As a general rule, people have to go find luck; it doesn’t find them. Luck is attracted to action and energy; it doesn’t come looking for you on the couch.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/28/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-12]/2/126/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Find a way to test your assumption in a small way so no one gets hurt.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/28/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-12]/2/122/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} One form of loserthink is having too much confidence in your own rightness and your ability to divine the future. Another form of loserthink involves waiting too long to develop confidence in your worldview before acting.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/28/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-12]/2/128/2[page_119]:215%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} loserthink is the default approach because they have never learned any other way. They either recklessly insist on starting big (unrealistic confidence) or they favor doing nothing at all (failure by inaction).
	- # {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/30/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-13]/2/2[_idParaDest-45]/2[page_120]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Chapter 10: Thinking Like an Economist
	  collapsed:: true
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/30/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-13]/2/6/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} MONEY INFLUENCE
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/30/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-13]/2/10/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} For instance, I use my understanding of economics to avoid speeding tickets. The police department is like any organization that has a limited budget and limited resources. It is fair to assume that they have figured out how to get the most enforcement value out of the dollars they have. And that means not wasting resources handing out speeding tickets on Sunday mornings at six a.m., for example.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/30/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-13]/2/14/1:219%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Obviously, my method is not 100 percent effective, but watch how rarely you see speed traps on off hours of the week.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/30/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-13]/2/16/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} A basic understanding of economics can help you “see around corners” that others cannot.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/30/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-13]/2/20/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} People who understand economics can more easily spot hoaxes because money drives human behavior in predictable ways.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/30/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-13]/2/18/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Sometimes people who don’t understand economics will tell me they plan to buy real estate and rent it out to make money. Without doing any research whatsoever, I tell them with confidence that such opportunities do not exist in my state. My economic reasoning is that real estate brokers buy those properties as soon as they are available (which is rare), so the rest of the public never sees them.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/30/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-13]/2/22/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} I once talked to a professional financial advisor who recommended managed stock funds for his clients.
				- > Unmanaged index funds are better - look into getting a SIPP just buying index funds
			-
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/30/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-13]/2/24/1:122%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} One of the most consistent rules of life is that bad behavior happens almost 100 percent of the time whenever you have this combination of variables:
				- There is money to be made from the bad behavior
				- The odds of detection are low
				- Lots of people are involved
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/30/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-13]/2/32/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Be skeptical of any experts who have a financial incentive to mislead you and almost no risk on their end.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/30/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-13]/2/30/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Your best defense for navigating a world in which experts are too often frauds is to seek second opinions whenever that is an option. Real experts are likely to give you advice that is similar or at least compatible. Frauds are more likely to freelance, meaning any two frauds would give you different advice. And whenever possible, ask a retired expert or a family friend for a second opinion.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/30/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-13]/2/34[_idParaDest-47]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} ENDS JUSTIFY THE MEANS
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/30/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-13]/2/48/1:472%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} A trained economist would know to consider all factors in a decision. The public at large tends to leave out the parts they don’t like.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/30/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-13]/2/50/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If you reframe the “ends justify the means” question as a balance of costs and benefits, expect the target of your persuasion to respond with some sort of Hitler/murderer analogy in which the benefits do not exceed the costs on any dimension.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/30/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-13]/2/52/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If you think in terms of “the ends justifying the means” instead of “costs compared to benefits,” you are buying into loserthink.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/30/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-13]/2/54[_idParaDest-48]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} HOW TO COMPARE THINGS
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/30/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-13]/2/62/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Engineers and other professionals also learn how to compare options in the most rational way. When I deal with people who have come from any of those disciplines, I find I am talking the same language and we can often follow the same fact-path from assumptions all the way to conclusions. And when we disagree, we can easily identify which variable or assumption caused the difference. That allows us to do a deeper dive on the source of disagreement to see if we can find common ground.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/30/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-13]/2/78/1:303%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} But if I had never been formally educated in “comparing things,” I probably wouldn’t even know it was a skill that could be improved. And if I don’t know it is a learned skill, I probably think I am good at it already. That kind of blind spot can become a wall in your mental prison.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/30/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-13]/2/82/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Compared to Nothing
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/30/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-13]/2/84/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} I can generally identify citizens who have not been trained in decision-making by how they evaluate the job performance of a president. It is common for citizens to say a president is doing either a great job or a poor job. But . . . compared to whom???
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/30/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-13]/2/88/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} There is no controlled experiment in which the actual president is compared to some other president who is doing the same job, under the same conditions, at the same time.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/30/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-13]/2/104/2/2[page_131]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If you have a strong opinion about a proposed plan but you have not compared it to the next best alternative, you are not part of a rational conversation.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/30/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-13]/2/106[_idParaDest-49]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} HALFPINIONS
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/30/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-13]/2/108/1:349%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Both sides routinely focus on costs alone or benefits alone, depending on the topic. Rarely do you see politicians or political pundits describe the costs and the benefits of a proposal, at least not in any useful detail.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/30/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-13]/2/110/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} I call the act of ignoring one half of a topic (either the costs or the benefits) a halfpinion.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/30/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-13]/2/114[_idParaDest-50]/2[page_132]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} TIME VALUE OF MONEY
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/30/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-13]/2/116/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Our ability to predict what path is the right one depends on looking at both the short-term and the long-term implications of our decisions.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/30/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-13]/2/128/1:85%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} But the present has one quality that the future does not: certainty. You can often predict with confidence what will happen tomorrow, but predicting events more than a year in the future gets iffy fast.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/30/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-13]/2/132/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} A useful rule of thumb for doing quick mental calculations is that money doubles in value every ten years, assuming you can earn an average 7 percent return per year. A diversified stock portfolio, such as an index fund, could be expected to have at least a 7 percent average return over any multidecade period.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/30/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-13]/2/140/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} In the business world, a project that doesn’t pay for itself in two to three years is generally a bad idea. The exception is when real estate is involved, because real estate rarely decreases in value over time unless something unusual happens. If you build a factory, the building and land will probably be worth something in ten years even if your underlying business goes bust.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/30/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-13]/2/142[_idParaDest-51]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} CONSIDER THE ALTERNATIVES
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/30/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-13]/2/144/1:417%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If there is even a small chance we are heading toward a near-extinction event, shouldn’t we put maximum effort and expense into driving that risk to zero?
			  
			  Answer: It depends what else you need the money for.
			  
			  If climate change were the only risk in our dangerous world, then yes, it would be rational to spend—and even overspend—to bring the risk of human extinction to zero. But we live in a dangerous world, with lots of mortal risks. Would we be better off putting that $1 trillion into an asteroid early-warning system, complete with nuclear missiles that could move the asteroids off course if we detect them early enough? What about the risks of pandemics, economic catastrophes, cyberwars, nuclear war, and a dozen other things that could destroy life on earth? On a risk-reward basis, would we be better off using our money to boost the economy now so fewer people die from poverty in the future?
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/30/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-13]/2/150/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Our financial and technical ability to address climate change will be far greater in ten years than it is now
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/30/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-13]/2/154/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If you have only one mortal risk, it might make sense to spend huge amounts of money to drive that risk to zero. But if you have multiple mortal risks, it might make more sense to allocate your money across several risks.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/30/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-13]/2/156[_idParaDest-52]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} CONFUSOPOLIES
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/30/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-13]/2/158/1:11%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} I coined the word confusopoly to describe an industry in which price competition is eliminated by making products and services so confusing that customers can’t tell what they are getting for their money. The best examples are insurance products and mobile phone service. Most consumers can’t tell which companies offer the best deals because they can’t sort through the complexity.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/30/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-13]/2/160/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Consider the complicated terms of service agreements we encounter nearly every day
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/30/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-13]/2/162/1:56%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If you have a firm opinion about international trade deals, the future of cryptocurrencies, or any of a thousand other complicated topics, you might be engaging in loserthink. I say that because no one should be confident in the face of complexity.
				- > Conversely it's good to take opinions from ancient philosophers when it comes to age-old problems
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/30/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-13]/2/168/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If you find yourself experiencing certainty in a complex situation, you are probably experiencing loserthink.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/30/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-13]/2/170[_idParaDest-53]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} STRAIGHT-LINE PREDICTIONS
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/30/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-13]/2/172/1:135%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If you try to predict the future by assuming no variables ever change, you get predictions that look like these:
			  
			      “The horse is here to stay but the automobile is only a novelty—a fad.”
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/30/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-13]/2/182/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Straight-line predictions told us the population would increase faster than the food supply. The opposite happened. Straight-line predictions told us we would run out of fossil fuels, but we keep finding new sources. We humans are not good at predicting. And any notion that we have developed that superpower, in light of all observations to the contrary, is pure loserthink.
			  AKA black swan events
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/30/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-13]/2/184/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Straight-line predictions are generally wrong, and dangerous if you act on them. Still, they are not useless. Sometimes a straight-line prediction can encourage people to make the changes necessary to avoid a bad outcome. And sometimes you can rule out some possible outcomes, which can be helpful. But don’t confuse helpful with accurate.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/30/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-13]/2/186/1:35%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} I often look to what I call the Adams Law of Slow-Moving Disasters. The idea is that whenever we humans see a huge problem coming at us in slow motion, the odds are excellent that we will figure out a solution. That’s why we haven’t run out of food or fossil fuels
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/30/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-13]/2/188/1:1%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }}  also like to look at how much entrepreneurial energy is going into a topic. For example, in the dawn of the personal computer age, it was hard to know which companies would come to dominate the industry, but it wasn’t hard at all to know that personal computers were here to stay. Similarly, we observe there is a lot of energy going into blockchain technologies, which doesn’t tell you much about the future of any particular product or company, but we can safely predict that blockchain will be around for a while. In general, when you see a lot of energy in a particular area, spread across multiple companies, the technology or industry is likely to stay around even if the players change.
	- # {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/2[_idParaDest-54]/2[page_141]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Chapter 11: Things Pundits Say That You Should Not Copy
	  collapsed:: true
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/6/1:130%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Pundits are almost always advocates, as opposed to objective observers. If you imitate their arguments, you are leaving the field of reason in favor of trying to persuade.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/8/1:17%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} I will show you how to avoid copying the most ridiculous pundit “reasoning,” as well as how to avoid falling into their word traps.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/10[_idParaDest-56]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} MORAL EQUIVALENCY
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/20/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} As a matter of good manners, try to resist comparing someone’s cancer with your pimple, or comparing a death in someone else’s family to an expired carton of milk in your fridge. It isn’t a crime against humanity; it just isn’t good manners. And it is rarely persuasive.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/26/1:473%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} in a political or social media sense, any statement saying both parties are to blame opens you to the loserthink criticism that you are “making a moral equivalence,” which is probably not what you are doing.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/30/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If you are accusing someone of making inappropriate moral equivalences, you are probably experiencing loserthink of the mind reader variety.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/32[_idParaDest-57]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} WORD-THINKING
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/36/1:4%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} if you find yourself reengineering the meaning of common words to make your case, you might be engaging in what I call word-thinking, a common form of loserthink. Word-thinking involves trying to understand the world, or trying to win a debate, by concentrating on the definition of words.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/38/2/2/2[page_144]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} EXAMPLE:
			  
			  PRO-LIFER: Abortion is murder!
			  
			  PRO-CHOICER: It’s only “murder” when it is illegal. And it isn’t illegal.
			  
			  PRO-LIFER: Call it what you will, but killing an innocent human life is immoral!
			  
			  PRO-CHOICER: A fetus isn’t “life” until it can live on its own.
			  
			  PRO-LIFER: Life begins at conception!
			- ### {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/48/2[page_145]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} “Normalizing”
			  collapsed:: true
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/50/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} In political discussions you often hear people saying it would be bad to “normalize” one sort of behavior or another. The implication is that the behavior in question is both abnormal and undesirable. But “normalize” is a vague and subjective standard. What is the difference between normalizing something and simply doing something you think makes sense? How long does a new thing have to last before we call it normalized?
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/56/2/2[page_146]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If your only complaint about another person’s behavior is that it might normalize something, you might not have any reasons to back your opinion.
			- ### {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/58/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} “Problematic”
			  collapsed:: true
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/60/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If you don’t like someone’s plan, but you don’t have specific objections, you might be tempted to label the plan problematic. That generic label excuses you from having to provide facts and reasons to back up your opinion. Best of all, the word problematic sounds smart, which gives you unearned credibility.
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/62/1:72%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} “I don’t see any specific problems with your plan, but I feel as if there must be some.”
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/66/1:11%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} people who have logic and facts on their side tend to show their work. People who don’t have good arguments try to get away with labeling the situation as if the unstated argument were simply obvious.
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/68/2[page_147]:461%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} if you find yourself calling a plan problematic and you can’t give some reasonable-sounding examples to back it up, that is loserthink.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/72[_idParaDest-58]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} THE HYPOCRISY DEFENSE
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/76/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Refusing to admit your errors, or your team’s errors, locks you into a team sport mentality. That’s a mental prison. It makes you appear small and it doesn’t advance anyone’s interests. You’re more focused on the fight than the fix.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/78/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} To escape that mental prison, admit you are wrong, put it in context, and explain what you plan to do to fix it.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/82[_idParaDest-59]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} FAIRNESS
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/84/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Humans apparently evolved to prefer fairness in situations where they don’t have the option of being on top. And that’s most situations.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/84/1:242%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The closest we can come to fairness involves applying the law equally to all citizens.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/88/1:100%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Politicians are advocates for their constituents, not referees for fairness. If your job is to persuade, arguing for fairness can be an effective approach because humans are spring-loaded to prefer fairness. But in everyday life, fairness is an illusion, and complaining about the lack of fairness is rarely productive.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/92/2/2[page_149]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Arguing for fairness is loserthink because no two people will agree on what it looks like. The exception is when you are trying to persuade, in which case rationality matters less.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/94/1:143%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} “Fairness is a child’s argument. It isn’t a useful standard because reasonable adults will disagree on what is fair. The best you can do is play by the same rules.”
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/96[_idParaDest-60]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} FEELS-THE-SAME
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/100/1:233%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} consider a meme I saw on Twitter while writing this chapter. Above a photo of President Trump, the meme asked, “Do you know who else discredited the media?” Below the photo came the answer: “Lenin, Stalin, Hitler, Mussolini, Castro, Mao, Idi Amin, Pol Pot, Hussein, Assad, Putin, ISIS, Boko Haram.” That meme is based on situations that feel similar in at least one way, but that doesn’t mean anything else about those characters is similar. Plenty of politicians criticize the media, but few of them become dictators.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/112/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Patterns, and the analogies that often include them, are a form of what I call feels-the-same, meaning humans see patterns in lots of things, and those patterns might remind us of other things. But that’s all patterns usually mean. If you think an analogy is helping you predict the future, you might be in a mental prison. Analogies don’t have that power. To predict the future, look for causation, not patterns.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/118/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Analogies are great when used for humor. They are also handy for describing a new concept. But I try to avoid using analogies in the service of persuasion or prediction because analogies are not good for that. The target of your persuasion will simply pick it apart for not being exactly the same as the situation you are debating.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/124/2/2[page_153]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If you find that your best argument depends on the predictive or persuasive characteristics of analogies, you are likely in a mental prison of your own making.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/126[_idParaDest-61]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} FRICTION
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/130/1:22%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} the United States is debating whether or not border walls (or fences) work. One side says yes and the other says no. Both positions are loserthink. A more productive way to look at the situation is to see that adding friction to anything reduces the number of people who try it.
			  i.e. All-or-nothing thinking
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/138/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Adding friction to any human choice will reduce the number of people making that choice. To assume otherwise is loserthink.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/140[_idParaDest-62]/2[page_155]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} MENTIONING IS NOT COMPARING
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/142/1:58%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} I love my girlfriend, good food, exercise, creative ideas, dogs, cats, and world peace. That list seems uncontroversial, doesn’t it?
			  
			  But if someone in a mental prison sees this list, they might write a snarky article or tweet claiming I “compared my girlfriend to a dog.”
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/150/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If two or more items are mentioned in the same conversation, that doesn’t mean anyone is comparing them for relative value.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/152[_idParaDest-63]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} “DO YOUR OWN RESEARCH”
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/162/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The domains in which “do your own research” does not work include anything in the political realm that is big and complicated. In that category I would put climate change, national economic policies, trade negotiations, and gun control. Those are the obvious ones.
			  
			  In each of those cases, you can research as much as you want, and all you will learn is that there are studies and data supporting opposite positions, and you’re not qualified to know which ones are reliable.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/166/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} For big, complicated political questions, “doing your own research” is a waste of time.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/172/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Pundits and online debaters often imply they have superior opinions because they have researched a topic more thoroughly. Sometimes those cocky folks are 100 percent right. But other times, they are suffering from confirmation bias, or they are engaged in advocacy instead of reason, and you probably have no way to tell the difference. Doing your own research is usually better than not doing any research, but don’t assume you can tell the difference between actual knowledge and your own confirmation bias.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/174[_idParaDest-64]/2[page_158]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} “BE YOURSELF”
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/178/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} This line of thinking imagines your mind is who you are, and there isn’t much you can do about it. You were born with a certain personality, either good or bad, and that’s the person you will always be. Case closed.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/180/1:46%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} a more productive way of thinking about your experience in this life is that you are what you do.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/180/1:195%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} you can change who you are by changing what you do. For example, learning good manners and making it a habit to use them often will turn you into a polite person even if you weren’t “born that way.”
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/182/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} One of the best mental habits you can develop is to think in positive terms even when you don’t feel positive.2 For example, I was a negative person in my twenties, but I didn’t know it. I thought I was humorously pointing out the flaws in everything around me. I wasn’t aware of how damaging it was to the people who had to listen to it. Nor did I realize how the negativity affected my own sense of happiness. Dwelling on the negative is expensive in terms of your social life, your mental health, and even your career success. People like to be around positive people, for all the right reasons.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/188/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Never be yourself if you can make yourself into something better through your conscious actions. You are what you do.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/190[_idParaDest-65]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} “COWARD!”
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/196/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The problem with labeling terrorists and mass murderers of any kind as cowards, aside from it being ridiculous on the surface, is that it diverts attention from any kind of deeper analysis that would be helpful.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/202[_idParaDest-66]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} “APOLOGIST!” AND WORDS LIKE THAT
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/206/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} When your critics have strong arguments, they gleefully offer them. But when those critics have weak arguments, they often try to slap a label on you and hope no one notices the missing reasons.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/206/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Apologist isn’t the only word used to sidestep debate. You also see labels such as narcissist, fascist, globalist, racist, and socialist.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/210/2/2[page_161]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If your response to a disagreement is to assign your opponent a dismissive label, you have surrendered the moral and intellectual high ground to wallow in loserthink.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/212[_idParaDest-67]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} “WHY DIDN’T YOU DO IT SOONER?”
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/214/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If you have ever held a job or been in a relationship, you know how easy it is for someone to frame your brilliant accomplishments in a way that makes you look lazy and dumb.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/32/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-14]/2/222/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If someone does something you appreciate, it is loserthink to ask why it didn’t happen sooner.
	- # {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/2[_idParaDest-68]/2[page_163]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Chapter 12: The Golden Age Filter
	  collapsed:: true
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/6/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If you pay attention to the news, you are assaulted with one dire warning after another about how the world is barreling mindlessly toward doom. It is easy to lose sight of the big picture: the world is doing well by historical standards, and the rate of improvement is increasing.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/12[_idParaDest-70]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} POVERTY AND OVERPOPULATION
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/16/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The middle class has not done so well lately because the cost of living is rising faster than incomes. When an imbalance of this sort happens in an innovative, capitalist system, you can expect new companies to spring up in response. There is always a time lag, of course, so you won’t see all of this right away. I’ll give you a brief tour of the innovations you can expect in the near future to lower the cost of living
			- ### {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/18/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Inexpensive Homes
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/20/1:166%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} 3-D-printed homes, factory-built homes, kits for assembling your own home, and nonstandard living arrangements, such as college students being roommates with senior citizens for mutual benefit.
			- ### {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/22/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Education
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/24/1:214%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Online learning is rapidly growing and is already cost-effective, but it is fairly primitive compared to where it is likely to evolve in a few years
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/24/1:364%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Most online learning is limited to one teacher droning about a topic while the video camera is running. But eventually, and inevitably, you will see more of a Hollywood film model for online education, meaning teams of qualified people will get together to add their contributions to the product. The “teacher” might simply be a good presenter, similar to an actor. The course content might be the product of graphic artists, CGI artists, gifted writers and directors working together.
					- Also AI now has the potential for much cheaper and higher quality production. Plus ((635fc545-5a70-446b-b890-499f562752c6))
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/32/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Probably the biggest obstacle to nontraditional learning is the value of the degree or certification one gets when done. If you have a degree from a top college, employers know approximately what they are getting. But if you learned a variety of useful skills online, and there is no degree program involved, how would anyone know your value? I expect this to change over time as credible business leaders and companies start endorsing certain collections of online classes as being degree-equivalent.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/34[_idParaDest-71]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} END OF UNSOLVED CRIME
		  collapsed:: true
			- > This seems a bit ridiculous considering in the UK now most theft from stores doesn't result in an arrest, and theft from cars and homes is >90% unsolved crimes
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/36/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Have you noticed that nearly 100 percent of high-profile crimes seem to get solved?
				- > Oh yeah except the Epstein list, so powerful people can still easily avoid criminal charges
			- ### {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/38/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Video Everywhere
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/42/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} I assume most self-driving cars of the future will have video capabilities both inside and out, meaning anything within sight of an automobile is likely to be recorded. And self-driving cars will reduce drunk driving, speeding, road rage, and most other types of vehicle-related crimes.
			- ### {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/46/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Digital Trail
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/48/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If you own a smartphone—and nearly all criminals do—law enforcement can know where you have been, what you have been saying, with whom you have been communicating, and where you purchased what kind of goods.
			- ### {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/50/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} DNA
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/52/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} We have long been able to match DNA with evidence found at crime scenes. But this capability is taking a huge leap forward as more people voluntarily submit DNA samples for personal testing and for tracing their family trees on genealogical websites.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/56[_idParaDest-72]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} WORLD PEACE
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/58/1:241%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} n my opinion, a number of forces are aligning to make wars far less likely in the future.
				- Mutually assured destruction keeps working.
				- Conquest is no longer economical.
				- Guerrilla resisters have access to better weaponry.
				- Economic war is a better substitute for physical war.
			- ### {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/72/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Nuclear Powers
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/74/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} We have never seen two nuclear powers go to war against each other, and in my opinion we never will. The threat of mutually assured destruction is clearly effective.
			- ### {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/76/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Nuclear Powers Attacking Nonnuclear Powers
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/78/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The lesson of the past few decades is that large military powers can easily crush countries with smaller militaries. But the victor can’t easily occupy and hold the defeated country for the long run because of the high cost of containing the inevitable guerrilla resistance. So we will probably see fewer wars of conquest simply because they don’t work out for the conquering power.
				- > Fucking lmao, this book did not predict Russia Ukraine war nor Israel Palestine at all
			- ### {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/80/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Proxy Wars
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/82/1:359%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} here too we see a trend toward economic punishment of the larger countries backing a warring faction. For example, at this writing, both Iran and Saudi Arabia are experiencing economic pressure to end their proxy war in Yemen.4
			- ### {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/88/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Radical Islamic Wars
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/94/1:29%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} the Middle East might be only one ayatollah away from something that looks like peace. And that ayatollah, Iran’s Supreme Leader Khamenei, is in his eighties, with a crumbling economy thanks to sanctions and military spending, and a relatively pro-Western population.
					- > Lmao Scott Adams did not predict Israel-Palestine at all, nor the US pulling out of Afghanistan and leaving that to become Taliban-controlled
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/104[_idParaDest-73]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} CLIMATE CHANGE
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/106/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} In 2018, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) released a “dire” prediction that climate change could depress GDP by 10 percent in eighty years. That might be the best news you have heard on the topic, albeit disguised as terrible news. In eighty years, the world is likely to be five to ten times wealthier, assuming normal trends, and we wouldn’t even notice we were 10 percent worse off than we might have been without climate change.
			- ### {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/110/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Fusion Power
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/118/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Recently I spoke to a brilliant investor in this field who told me the challenges for fusion power have moved out of the realm of science and into the realm of engineering. By that I mean fusion reactors work on paper, and it should work in the real world too, so long as we can engineer a sufficiently powerful set of magnets to contain the plasma, or some other engineering work-around.
			- ### {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/120/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Generation IV Nuclear Power
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/122/1:49%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} So-called Gen IV nuclear reactors are designed so there can be no meltdowns even if nearly everything goes wrong at the same time. Bill Gates called attention to the potential of these “new-wave” reactors in his 2019 list of breakthrough technologies.5
					- “10 Breakthrough Technologies 2019, Curated by Bill Gates,” *MIT Technology Review*, February 28, 2019, [www.technologyreview.com/lists/technologies/2019/](http://www.technologyreview.com/lists/technologies/2019/).
			- ### {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/130/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Air-conditioning
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/132/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} One of the bigger risks of climate warming is that more people will die from heat. Billionaire entrepreneur Richard Branson has teamed up with the Indian government to offer a $3 million prize to whoever can invent a better air-conditioning system—meaning a less expensive one.
			- ### {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/134/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} CO2 Scrubbers
			  collapsed:: true
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/136/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Climate change skeptics remind us loudly and often that CO2 is good for plants, and science agrees. Greenhouses use CO2 generators to improve plant yields. The big question is how much CO2 is too much, warming-wise or otherwise. I’m not qualified to address that question, so for our purposes here I will describe some technologies under development for cleaning CO2 out of the air.
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/138/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Carbon Engineering
					- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/140/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Carbon Engineering is a Canadian company funded in part by Bill Gates. They report having a breakthrough technology for scrubbing CO2 out of the air and converting it to a type of jet fuel.
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/144/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Climeworks
					- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/146/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Climeworks is another company working on scrubbing CO2 out of the air using giant air-sucking engines and controlled chemical reactions.
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/148/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} CarbFix
					- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/150/1:111%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} They claim to already be able to scrub CO2 from the air and store it permanently in rocks.
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/152/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Global Thermostat
					- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/154/1:48%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} technology for using the heat generated by existing industrial processes, such as metal smelting, cement production, and petrochemical refining, to collect CO2 out of the air. The CO2 can then be used by indoor farms, in oil well rejuvenation, and to make carbonated drinks, for example.
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/160/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Strata Worldwide
					- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/162/1:30%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} stand-alone commercial product for scrubbing CO2 out of the air.11
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/168/1:425%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Given the high priority of climate change, and the huge amounts of money that will be funneled in that direction, an optimist such as myself would predict that direct scrubbing of CO2 from the air will be economical and scalable in time to make a meaningful difference in CO2 levels on the planet.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/172[_idParaDest-74]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} END OF UNEMPLOYMENT
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/176/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The first trend is that we are likely to see big innovations that could lower the cost of living. I predict big strides over the next two decades in lowering the cost of healthcare, transportation, energy, education, Internet access, and housing. And that means lower-paying jobs will be sufficient for enjoying a quality life.
			  > I'm pretty skeptical as that's not been the trend so far, instead cost of living has risen over the course of my life
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/180/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Self-driving cars will someday make individual car ownership unnecessary. The cost of owning a vehicle could be spread across multiple families as efficient ride-sharing apps are developed. And self-driving cars will be almost accident-free, which means insurance costs will eventually drop.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/182/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Education will continue to move online and improve in effectiveness, and that means the cost of training workers will drop. It will soon be practical and easy to retrain unemployed people.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/184/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} As I mentioned earlier, I’ve been looking into low-cost home construction trends, and there is a lot happening in that field. The next five years will see inexpensive homes built by 3-D printers, robots, and even homeowners doing construction themselves using snap-together kits.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/186/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Collectively, these trends suggest that a worker who loses a high-paying factory job to robots could have a perfectly good lifestyle on half the income working at a different job. That might require relocating from an expensive location to one that has been developed for low-cost living, but that can be done.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/190/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The biggest advantage job seekers will have in the future is the ability to find work anywhere in the country—or perhaps in the world—and move there on demand. At the moment, physical mobility is deeply limited for people who have no money. But you can expect normal continuous improvement in that area, just as we see in every other field.
			  This sounds wild to me when people are getting more concentrated in cities, and there are many places which degrade over time instead of getting better eg Detroit
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/194[_idParaDest-75]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} HEALTHCARE INNOVATIONS
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/198/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Telemedicine
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/200/1:272%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Using email obviously lowers the cost of doctor visits while being more convenient and efficient at the same time.
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/202/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If email isn’t fast enough, or you want a more personal touch, you can now contact a doctor on short notice via a video call on your phone, at a discounted cost to an in-person visit.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/204/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Smartphone Health Tests and Lab Tests
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/206/1:95%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Startups are making smartphone accessories that can test your urine, blood, blood pressure, hearth rhythms, temperature, and blood oxygen, to name a few.
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/208/1:373%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} All indications are that the cost of lab testing—at least for the most common tests—will plummet in coming years.14
				  Better Health with Smartphone Apps,” Harvard Health, April 2015, www.health.harvard.edu/staying-healthy/better-health-with-smartphone-apps.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/210/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Innovation and Technology
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/212/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} In 2018, Berkshire Hathaway, Amazon, and J.P. Morgan teamed up to create a better healthcare solution, at a lower cost, for their U.S. employees.15
				  Angelica LaVito, Christina Farr, and Hugh Son, “Amazon’s Joint Health-Care Venture Finally Has a Name: Haven,” CNBC, March 6, 2019, www.cnbc.com/2019/03/06/amazon-jp-morgan-berkshire-hathaway-health-care-venture-named-haven.html.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/214/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} MRI Scanners
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/216/1:152%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Newly developed technologies for making MRI scanners are expected to lower the cost of the devices by half.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/218/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Removing Regulatory and Legal Obstacles
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/220/1:348%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} the Trump administration is making a major push to modify federal laws and processes to improve competition in all areas of healthcare
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/222/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} We might also see some benefits coming from the competition among major political parties in how they propose to address healthcare. Democrats want some sort of taxpayer-funded universal healthcare while Republicans favor improving market competition to increase access and affordability.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/226/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Big Data
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/230/1:439%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} some point in the near future, we might have enough patient health data in one database to know whether or not the aspirin takers have longer or shorter life spans, all other things being equal.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/236/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Medical Breakthroughs
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/238/1:110%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} We’re seeing breakthroughs in gene therapy, stem cell therapy, cancer treatments of all kinds, and vaccine delivery systems, to name a few.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/244[_idParaDest-76]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} RACE RELATIONS
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/256/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} I live in California, and I won’t pretend my experience is typical of the rest of the country. But from my perspective, race relations on a person-to-person level are better than ever. There is more interracial marriage, historically high employment rates for all minority groups, and a generally improved comfort with each other as friends, mates, and neighbors.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/34/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-15]/2/270/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The business model of the press guarantees you will see more negativity than the facts support. Things are often better than they seem, especially in the long run.
	- # {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/2[_idParaDest-77]/2[page_188]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Chapter 13: How to Break Out of Your Mental Prison
	  collapsed:: true
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/32[_idParaDest-80]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} CULTURAL GRAVITY
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/34/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Every culture has its own feelings about success. I call that cultural gravity. If your culture celebrates success, you have low cultural gravity, and you can rise according to your talents and efforts. But if your culture disapproves of success, you’ll feel it dragging you back to earth every time you try to succeed.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/36/1:352%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} That teasing, especially at a young age, created a cultural gravity. The message was clear: if I wanted to be cool, I couldn’t also be a good student.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/46/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If you allow the opinions of unsuccessful people in your culture to hold you back, you’re engaged in loserthink. If you can learn to think of yourself as free from the cultural gravity of your peers, it will pay off in the long run.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/48[_idParaDest-81]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} KNOWING WHERE TO START
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/50/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If you don’t know the right way to do something, try doing it wrong, so long as it is not dangerous to do so. Doing things wrong is an excellent way to figure out how to do things right. I became one of the most successful cartoonists in the world by doing just about everything wrong until I figured out how to do it right.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/52/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} When you do something the wrong way, the people who know how to do things the right way will generally jump in to tell you what you are doing wrong. Take advantage of all that free advice.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/56/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} In 2016, I started doing livestreaming programs every day on the Periscope app, talking mostly about persuasion and politics. My content had sketchy audio quality, bad lighting, unfocused topics, and generally the lowest production values you have ever seen. My small audience made continuous suggestions on how to improve all dimensions of my video streams, and I experimented with my own ideas as well. Today, my branded “Coffee with Scott Adams” Periscopes are followed by most of the major news media and have led to book deals and nonstop media requests for interviews.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/58/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Loserthink involves waiting until you know how to do something right before you do anything at all. That strategy makes sense only when it is physically or financially dangerous to make a mistake. For most ambitions in life, we can jump in, make some mistakes, and figure it out from there.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/60/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If you can’t figure out how to do a task the right way, do it the wrong way and watch how quickly you get free advice.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/62[_idParaDest-82]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} UNFOCUSED PRIORITIES
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/70/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} In my book How to Fail at Almost Everything and Still Win Big, I talked about making yourself your top priority, because you can’t do much for others if you don’t first learn how to take care of yourself. That means making your health and your finances your top priorities until those things are in good shape.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/70/1:262%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Then you are in a position to expand your generosity outward, in roughly this order of priority.
				- PRIORITIES RANKED
					- You
					- Family
					- Friends
					- Employer
					- Town/city
					- Country
					- World
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/78/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} I recommend being selfish when it comes to your health, fitness, diet, and education. Your job is a high priority too, and you will need to sometimes put your employer first, as that is why they pay you. But if your boss consistently makes you choose work over health, look for a new job.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/82[_idParaDest-83]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} CONTEXT
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/84/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Probably the most common way people fall into mental prisons is by not knowing the context of a situation. If you glance at the news headlines on any given day, you’ll be surprised how many so-called news stories are nothing but people misunderstanding what someone said or did because some context was missing.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/94/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Think of all the times you had a firm opinion about some topic in the news, only to later learn you didn’t have the full story. It’s common.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/96/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} That’s why I like to wait two days before forming a strong opinion on events in the news. The initial reporting is so often wrong or out of context that it’s a waste of energy to immediately get worked up about what you see in the news. Just wait a few days, and there’s a high likelihood you will learn the catastrophe that was reported was no big deal once you hear the context. Or the thing that looked minor is actually a catastrophe. It works both ways.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/114/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Reports about famous people and other newsworthy topics are either wrong or misleading about 60 percent of the time, often because they lack context. Wait a few days before forming an opinion on anything new, just in case context is missing. It usually is.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/116[_idParaDest-84]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} LISTENING TO THE EXPERTS
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/124/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} We live in a world in which it is dangerous to ignore the advice of experts, but it is almost as dangerous to follow their advice. The trick is to know when the experts are the solution and when they are the jailers of your mental prison.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/126/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} I find it most useful to believe experts when the situation is simple and there is some historical situation much like it. In those cases, experts have a good handle on what works and what doesn’t. But for situations in which there is overwhelming complexity, there is no historical pattern that is predictive, and experts disagree, treat that sort of expert opinion as no more useful than an educated guess.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/128[_idParaDest-85]/2[page_201]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} FAKE NEWS FILTER
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/130/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} One of the most useful systems I have developed for understanding the world involves routinely flipping back and forth between CNN and Fox News coverage.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/132/1:698%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Here are some tips on identifying potential fake news.
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/134/2/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Four-Point Check: News that is true will generally be reported the same on right-leaning news sites Fox News and Breitbart, as well as on left-leaning CNN and MSNBC. If they all say a hurricane is heading your way, pack your bags. If only the right-leaning news sites or only the left-leaning news outlets report something as fact, it probably isn’t.
				- Team Bias: The “side” that is out of power is more likely to generate fake news. When President Obama was in office, Fox News told you he was destroying the country in a thousand ways. CNN was a bit more balanced about President Obama, and more likely to talk of his accomplishments. Under President Trump, CNN pivoted to nonstop negativity about Trump’s performance, and Fox News became more of a cheerleader. The news outlet whose political side is out of power does the most fearmongering because that’s what sells to their viewers. The side that has its preferred president in power has the advantage of being able to point to some accomplishments over time, even if they have to exaggerate to do so.
				- Mind Reading: Look for signs that news pundits are reading the minds of politicians to find problems. That usually means things are not as bad as the headlines suggest. The news business needs a full pipeline of news—preferably the bad kind—to feed their business model. If all they can find to complain about is their own opinion about the unspoken thoughts of strangers, the world is in a good place.
				- Doom Predictions: Look for signs that the reported bad news is really a prediction of doom from someone who is a political partisan. Predictions of doom from cheerleaders for one team or another are almost always exaggerated.
				- Manufactured Outrages: Look for signs that pundits are actively misinterpreting, or taking out of context, someone’s comments that would have been no big scandal without the devious sleight of hand.
				- Absurdity: If you see news that is so absurd it is literally unbelievable, that’s usually because it isn’t true. The old saying in the news business is that a dog biting a man is not news, but a man biting a dog is. It would be highly unusual for a man to bite a dog, but one could imagine it happening in our crazy world. So that doesn’t qualify as absurd, just unlikely. The absurd case would be a story about a pet cemetery located near a nuclear waste site that reanimated a dead dog that went on to bite someone.
				- Fog of War: For breaking news, don’t believe the first quotes you hear, the body counts, the implications for the future, whose fault it is, or much else about the story until some of the noise settles down. Experience tells us that the initial reports on most things are inaccurate.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/136/2/2[page_203]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} News that is reported the same by news outlets on both the left and the right is probably true. If you only see a story reported by news sites that lean in one direction, it probably isn’t true.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/138[_idParaDest-86]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} PERSUASION
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/146/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If you want to understand the world as it is, instead of the myth of human rationality, any one of these books will set you free. I recommend reading them in this order:
				- Influence—by Robert Cialdini
				- The Power of Habit—by Charles Duhigg
				- Thinking, Fast and Slow—by Daniel Kahneman
				- Win Bigly—by Scott Adams
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/152/2/2[page_205]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If you think humans are rational about their biggest priorities, you are poorly equipped to navigate life.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/154[_idParaDest-87]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} MANAGING EMBARRASSMENT
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/158/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Put yourself in potentially embarrassing situations on a regular basis just to maintain practice. If you get embarrassed as planned, watch how one year later you are still alive. Maybe you even have a funny story because of it.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/162/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Note how other people’s embarrassments mean little to you when you are an observer. That’s how much your embarrassments mean to them: nothing.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/166[_idParaDest-88]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} CHANGE WHAT YOU DO TO CHANGE HOW YOU THINK
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/170/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} In the simplest example, if you travel and talk to people from different cultures, the relocation of your body helps a great deal to expand your mind.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/172/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} You have probably noticed how radically your mood and your thoughts can change after exercise, eating, and even having sex. And if you don’t get enough sleep, you know your thoughts take a different path than if you did. One of the most important conceptual shifts you can make is the realization that you can program your thoughts and your attitudes by taking care of your health and fitness.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/174/1:442%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Learn to eat right and exercise right. Treat sleep as a learned skill. Those topics are beyond the scope of this book, but you would do well to read my book How to Fail at Almost Everything and Still Win Big to learn how to create simple systems to get all of that done.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/176/2/2[page_207]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} To think more effectively, improve your fitness, diet, and sleeping.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/178[_idParaDest-89]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} JUDGING THE MISTAKE VERSUS THE RESPONSE
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/184/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} One big problem with judging people by their mistakes is that what you are actually doing is judging people by the mistakes you are aware of. The people you have judged to be angels might simply be better, or luckier, at getting away with their transgressions against humanity.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/192/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} What I do recommend is that we judge the character of others by how they respond to their mistakes, whenever that is practical. And the best response a person can make to a mistake follows this pattern:
			  
			      Fully acknowledge the mistake and its impact.
			  
			      Display genuine-looking remorse.
			  
			      Explain what you plan to do to make amends.
			  
			      Explain how you plan to avoid similar mistakes.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/202[_idParaDest-90]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} THE FORTY-EIGHT-HOUR RULE AND THE TWENTY-YEAR RULE
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/206/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Someone has to invent new rules of etiquette every now and then to keep up with the changing times. I have invented two new rules that I recommend adopting because doing so will make the world a better place.
			- ### {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/208/2[page_210]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The Forty-Eight-Hour Rule
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/210/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The Forty-Eight-Hour Rule says that everyone deserves forty-eight hours to clarify, apologize for, or otherwise update an offending statement. The clock starts when the offender first realizes people are taking offense.
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/212/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Until the two-day period has passed, my proposed rule of etiquette is that observers can state how it makes them feel and can politely ask for a clarification. But it is impolite to assume you correctly interpreted an offending statement. Once the clarification/apology/update is offered, you are free under this standard to express your opinion of it.
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/220/2/2[page_211]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} It is loserthink to imagine you can accurately discern the intentions of public strangers. It is better to ask people to clarify their opinions and accept that as the best evidence of their inner thoughts.
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/252/2/2[page_214]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} When you see an “unbelievable” story in the press that is based on interpreting someone else’s meaning, it is generally fake news. Wait for the clarification to see if there is a perfectly ordinary explanation.
			- ### {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/254/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The Twenty-Year Rule
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/256/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Let’s stop blaming each other for things that happened more than twenty years ago. Humans change a lot in two decades.
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/266/2/2[page_215]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} It is loserthink to judge people by their much younger selves. People change. And they usually improve.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/268[_idParaDest-91]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} CONSPIRACY THEORIES AND HOW TO KNOW YOU FELL FOR ONE
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/272/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} There Are No Experts on Your Side
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/274/1:309%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If you are unable to find one credible expert working in the right field to agree with you, maybe it’s time to rethink your belief.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/276/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Invisible Elephant in the Room
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/278/1:453%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} if you and other people are looking at the same evidence in the same place at the same time, and you can clearly see something the rest do not see, the problem is probably on your end. Here I am not talking about interpretations of data. I’m talking about seeing something as clearly as the hand in front of your face. If you see it, and others cannot, bet on the people who don’t see it, because hallucinations are usually additions to reality, not subtractions.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/280[_idParaDest-92]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} HOW TO KNOW IF YOU ARE IN A CULT
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/284/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} No one is exempt from society’s powerful brainwashing forces. The press is telling its viewers what they want to hear—one version of reality for the political right and one version for the left—and it looks exactly like truth to the respective audiences. If you’re human, confirmation bias and what you believe to be your “common sense” are identical in how they make you feel.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/286/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The only practical way to test your worldview is to see how well it predicts.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/294/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The clearest signal you’re in a cult is that other members of the group actively try to prevent you from exchanging ideas with outsiders. For example, Democrats and Republicans increasingly avoid the company of the other, and the smart ones avoid talking politics in mixed company because it rarely ends well.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/36/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-16]/2/300/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If your view of reality is consistent with the past but fails to do a good job predicting the near future, you might be in a cultlike organization with a manufactured worldview. If members of your group discourage you from listening to opposing views, it’s time to plan your escape.
	- # {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/38/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-17]/2/2[_idParaDest-93]/2[page_220]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Chapter 14: How to Break Others Out of Their Mental Prisons
	  collapsed:: true
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/38/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-17]/2/20[_idParaDest-95]/2[page_222]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} THE MAGIC QUESTION
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/38/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-17]/2/22/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The most effective approach to addressing critics who misinterpret you, and then criticize their own misinterpretation as if it came from you, is this challenge:
			  collapsed:: true
				- State ONE thing you believe on this topic that you think I do NOT believe.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/38/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-17]/2/26/1:80%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If you let your critic focus on his hallucinations about your opinion, you will get nowhere. But if you change the focus to the critic’s opinion, it puts you in control of the conversation. In other words, you flip the conversation from artificial disagreement, in which your critic imagines crazy opinions for you and then debunks them, to one in which the critic is stating his opinion and you are agreeing.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/38/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-17]/2/26/1:490%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} That process looks like this, in an exaggerated form:
			  collapsed:: true
				- CRITIC: You think a border wall is the only solution to immigration! LOL! You must be a racist or an idiot.
				- YOU: State ONE thing on the topic of border control that you think is true and you believe I do not.
				- CRITIC: Well, for example, you think we need a wall for every inch of the border.
				- YOU: I don’t think that. I think we only need a wall where it makes sense functionally and economically. We are in total agreement.
				- CRITIC: Well, you also believe a border wall will stop all drugs! LOL!
				- YOU: I don’t believe a border wall will stop all drugs. We are in complete agreement.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/38/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-17]/2/40/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Don’t play Whac-A-Mole with people who have laundry lists of reasons supporting their hallucinations. Ask for their strongest point only, and debunk it if you can. Target their undue confidence, not their entire laundry list.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/38/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-17]/2/42[_idParaDest-96]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} PACING
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/38/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-17]/2/44/1:121%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Pacing involves matching the person you hope to persuade by agreeing with as much of their position as you can without lying, in order to build rapport and trust before taking on the disagreements. Always talk first about the points on which you agree, to set the tone and establish yourself as a reasonable voice.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/38/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-17]/2/48/2/2[page_225]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Agree with people as much as you can without lying, and you will be in a better position to persuade.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/38/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-17]/2/50[_idParaDest-97]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} DEFINE THE WEEDS
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/38/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-17]/2/56/2/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }}     CRITIC: Your favorite politician said something offensive today.
			  
			      YOU: That is true, but trivial compared to the economy and national defense, both of which are stronger than ever.
			  
			  The losing approach here is to debate whether or not the politician was as offensive as claimed. It is more effective to accept minor criticisms while framing them as relatively unimportant. Here again, the objective is to persuade your critics that they are not good at sorting out what matters from what is in the weeds. You are not trying to change their minds outright.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/38/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-17]/2/60/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Don’t argue in the weeds of a debate. Dismiss the trivial stuff and concentrate on the variables that matter. That gives you the high ground.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/38/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-17]/2/62[_idParaDest-98]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} DESCRIBE THE LONG TERM
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/38/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-17]/2/66/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} If your critics can describe a long-term future that looks good for their preferred paths but you disagree, your best move is to suggest looking for a way to test your competing ideas small before committing to something long term. You won’t always have that option, but in many situations you will.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/38/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-17]/2/68/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Ask people with opposing opinions to describe what the future would look like if their view of the world were to play out. Does it sound reasonable?
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/38/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-17]/2/70[_idParaDest-99]/2[page_227]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} CALL OUT THE MIND READING
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/38/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-17]/2/72/1:155%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} when I point out that someone is forming an opinion based on what they believe to be their ability to read minds, they will often drop their confidence levels right away. If it doesn’t happen immediately after you cleverly label their behavior as mind reading, try this next: ask how many times in their personal relationships their mates or friends have incorrectly assumed what they were thinking. This approach hits people hard. We all know it is common for the people who know us best to misinterpret our thoughts and intentions. So what are the odds we can accurately deduce the inner thoughts and intentions of total strangers?
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/38/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-17]/2/76/1:163%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} my followers on social media throw it in my face every time I cross the subtle line from judging people by their actions to judging them by what I assume are their intentions. It’s a sticky idea.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/38/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-17]/2/80/2/2[page_228]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The best way to avoid the mind reading illusion is to look for it in others. That will prime you to better catch yourself when you do your own mind reading.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/38/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-17]/2/82[_idParaDest-100]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} FRAMING ISSUES
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/38/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-17]/2/96/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Democrats frame climate change as a case of wise scientists versus moronic science-deniers. Republicans frame climate change as a case of gullible simpletons who fall for junk science versus wise businesspeople who can see it is a scam. Neither framing is productive. A better frame is to see climate change risks as something the public needs to understand better so we’re all on the same side, wherever that leads.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/38/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-17]/2/98/1:172%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} There is no simple rule for finding the right frame, but in my experience everyone recognizes a better frame when they see it. So brainstorm framing options until one stands out as more productive, and test it with a few people to make sure they see it the same.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/38/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-17]/2/100/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} You can’t get the right answer until you frame the question correctly. And partisans rarely do.
	- # {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/40/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-18]/2/2[_idParaDest-101]/2[page_230]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Chapter 15: A Final Word
	  collapsed:: true
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1438&bookpos=epubcfi%28/40/2/4[x9780593083536_EPUB-18]/2/14/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} THINGS TO REMEMBER
			- Don’t engage in mind reading. It isn’t a human skill.
			- Think of your ego as a tool, not your identity. Track your predictions to build up some useful humility about your worldview. Put yourself in embarrassing situations regularly to teach yourself there is no lasting pain.
			- The past no longer exists. Don’t let your attachment to the past influence your decisions today.
			- If you haven’t mentioned the next best alternative to your proposed plan, you haven’t said anything at all, and smart people would be wise to ignore you.
			- If you are arguing over the definition of a word instead of the best way forward, you are not part of the productive world.
			- If you are sure one variable is all you need to grasp a complicated topic, the problem is probably on your end.
			- Occam’s razor (the idea that the simplest explanation is usually correct) is utter nonsense in the way it is commonly employed. We all think our opinions are the simplest explanations.
			- Fairness cannot be obtained in most cases because of its subjective nature. The closest you can get is equal application of the law.
			- If your argument depends on that one time something happened, you do not have an argument. You have a story.
			- If your argument depends entirely on the so-called slippery slope, you don’t have much of an argument. Everything changes until there’s a reason for it to stop. Mowing your lawn is not a slippery slope to shaving your dog.
			- Coincidences usually mean nothing. And they are the fuel of confirmation bias. If your argument depends entirely on not knowing how else to explain coincidences, you have a poor imagination, not an argument. Coincidences might tell you where to look first for confirmation of a theory, but that is as far as they can go.
			- Avoid halfpinions that ignore either the costs or the benefits of a plan.
			- Don’t use analogies to predict. Look to causes and effects.
			- Don’t judge a group by its worst 5 percent. If you do, you’re probably in the worst 5 percent of your own group.
			- Understand the limits of expert advice, and be skeptical of experts who have financial incentives to mislead.