tags:: [[Mind Liberation]], [[Lifestyle]], [[Society]]
isbn:: NA
date:: 2013
publisher:: PaRic Publishing
language:: NA
authors:: [[Aaron Clarey]]
format:: [azw3](/home/boss/Vaults/gocryptfs1/Calibre/Calibre-Library/Aaron Clarey/Enjoy the Decline (790)/Enjoy the Decline - Aaron Clarey.azw3), [epub](/home/boss/Vaults/gocryptfs1/Calibre/Calibre-Library/Aaron Clarey/Enjoy the Decline (790)/Enjoy the Decline - Aaron Clarey.epub)

- [[Synopsis]]
	-
- [Enjoy the Decline](calibre://show-book/Calibre-Library/790)  {{renderer calibreViewer, special, /#book_id=790&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book}} {{renderer calibreHighlight, false, 2000, _, Calibre-Library, 790, epub}}
  lastsync:: Wed Apr 10 2024 18:26:55 GMT+0100 (British Summer Time)
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/14/2/4/2/14/2/1:555%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} they could be fully informed socialists knowing damn well what they’re doing confiscating other people’s money.  The reason why doesn’t matter, all that matters “is what is.”
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/14/2/4/2/14/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} With the election of 2012 the American people have made it very clear which path they wish to take the United States down – socialism.  Whether cognizant of this fact or completely ignorant about it, it doesn’t matter, people voted the way they did.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/14/2/4/2/22/2/1:141%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} And not only did we grow up under these basic assumptions, we based our lives and our decisions around these premises.  We assumed the United States would continue to be the freest country in the world.  We assumed we would be able to keep the lion’s share of our income and wealth.  We assumed hard work, innovation, and efficiency would be rewarded.  We assumed if we worked hard at something our dreams could be realized.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/14/2/4/2/26/2/1:171%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Did you attend college to become a doctor?  Well too bad, you may have wage controls with Obamacare.  Did you work hard to become an engineer and create something?  Too bad, we may have to confiscate your income at a 60% level.  Did you have dreams of starting up a motorcycle shop?  Too bad we’re going to regulate and tax it out of existence.  Were you planning on marrying a nice girl?  Too bad, feminism has destroyed the quality of women.  Did you want to have children? Too bad the state will raise your children.  Did you want your children to have a better life than you?  Too bad, your generational peers voted to mortgage your children into financial slavery.  Say, nice sizeable 401k plan you have there!  Too bad, we’re going to nationalize it just like Argentina did.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/14/2/4/2/30/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The end result is EXTRAORDINARILY depressing.  Not only is it increasingly likely you’ve lived your life in vain, but you’ve lived a significant percentage of your life in slavery.  Worse still any dreams you had are becoming rapidly impossible.  And even worse than that is without your dreams there’s nothing you can uniquely achieve that would define you.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/2/22/2/1:27%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} civilian life in Berlin while under the siege of the Russians in 1945.  Berlin was nothing but rubble, supply lines were shot, and life for the average Berliner was wretched.  They couldn’t escape to the east in fear the Russians would kill or rape them (or both)
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/2/26/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} But where the documentary took a particularly dark turn was when it started showing footage of Berliners throwing parties in the midst of this hell.  I didn’t understand it at first until the narrator explained since these people were doomed, they logically came to the macabre conclusion they might as well live it up while they could.  Such “maniacal levity” was also documented by Albert Speer in his book “Inside the Third Reich” as he witnessed people being irrationally happy and cheerful even though their demise was imminent.  The documentary became even more morose when a lot of these parties ended up becoming “suicide parties” where the participants would break out the hidden booze, whoop it up one last final time, and then all commit suicide at the end of the evening.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/2/30/2/1:147%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Since the city was constantly being shelled, there was no electricity.  This left bonfires as the primary source of light and gave the videos a particularly eerie and barbaric feel as you saw people mix in and out of the shadows, all laughing maniacally.  Booze would flow, people would laugh, glasses would break, participants would fall over one another, but it was as if the party was being held at the Arkham Asylum.  They were no longer humans, they were turning into animals.  They were no longer sane.
	  
	   
	  
	  Or were they?
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/2/66/2/1:4%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} they were also 100% completely logical, sane and right in doing what they did.
	  
	   
	  
	  Bad as it was, dire and futile as it was, they were still about their wits.  They had no option to flee, they had no option to fight, so what else were they supposed to do?  Their only other option was to enjoy what little time they had left.  If anything it is a testament to the optimism of humankind and the resilience of the human mind.  Even in the darkest pits of hell, people still did what they could to enjoy it.  And it is here that we need to pull a lesson from the besieged Berliners because if there is an example of enjoying the decline (although an incredibly EXTREME example), occupied Berlin and its “last hurrah parties” are it.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/2/74/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Naturally the plight of citizens in 1945 Berlin is not perfectly analogous to the plight of Real Americans in 2012.  We do not have the Russians at the outskirts of town waiting to slaughter us.  We do not have a secret state police hanging us if we’re caught trying to escape.  We have food, clothing, shelter, safety and freedoms that simply do not compare to 1945 Berlin.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/2/74/2/1:376%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} However, we do share four key things in common:
	  
	   
	  
	  1.        A environment that has changed on us rendering our previous plans impotent
	  
	  2.       A situation we are powerless to control
	  
	  3.       A situation that requires we change our psychology to understand it
	  
	  4.       A situation that requires we change our behavior in order to make the best of it
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/2/92/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Letting Go of the United States
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/2/108/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} It is here we have to realize that the United States, no matter how much we love her, is no different than a loved one or a family member.  She is finite, she has a life cycle, and like all empires in the history of empires, she too will fail and die.  The issue is whether we can accept this or not for our own mental health.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/2/164/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The reason we can all laugh is because ultimately one group of large men throwing the funny looking ball better than another group of large men really has no material effect on us or our lives.  However, the trick to realizing what you do and do not control becomes much more difficult when it’s over something that DOES affect you.  The weather, the stock market, the economy, elections, etc.  Even though you consciously and mentally know you do not control these sorts of things, because these things affect you, you cannot help but worry and fret over them.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/2/172/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} It’s not easy to develop this mindset, but two quotes I have found help:
	  
	   
	  
	  “Whatever happens, happens.”
	  
	                              -Spike Spiegel
	  
	   
	  
	  “Worry is unnecessary interest on a debt that has to be paid.”
	  
	                              -Fortune Cookie that Paraphrased William Inge
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/2/192/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} For instance, as the government grows larger and larger, it will crowd out more and more of the private sector.  With higher taxation and more government regulation this will result in less economic opportunity for entrepreneurs, innovators, inventors, dreamers and just plain hard workers.  Being one of these industrious sorts you may have dreams of starting a company, enriching yourself, or just having a successful career.  But with taxation so high, regulations too restrictive, and capital so scarce, your dreams of starting a motorcycle company or inventing a new medical device is nearly impossible.  The error you will make (especially men) is blaming yourself for failing to realize your dreams, when in reality it was outside of your control.  It was doomed from the beginning.  You do yourself no service misplacing the blame on yourself.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/2/196/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Another perfect example (again, disproportionately affecting men) is not being able to provide for your family.  Say you work in the construction business circa 2005.  The housing market is booming, you’re making money, and you can finally afford that trip for you and your family out to Yellowstone.  All of the sudden banks start going bankrupt, real estate developers embezzle funds and go overseas, and the whole housing bubble pops.  Contracts are cancelled, general contractors aren’t paying, and you get laid off.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/2/204/2/1:15%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} because a bunch of inept bankers, criminal real estate developers, amoral mortgage brokers and corrupt politicians created the world’s largest housing bubble.  But ironically, the average man during the Great Recession probably took this personally, illogically blaming his sole self for the entire financial crisis of 2009.  Worse still, men across America felt an incredible amount of guilt and shame for not being able to provide for their families.  And worse than that, how many men committed suicide because of a recession that was not caused by them?  All of this can be avoided in mastering the skill of recognizing what you do and do not control.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/2/230/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Ultimately, the key to “learning to let go” is to realize you are just one person in a democracy of 300 million.  It isn’t the government or the state that you are fighting as much as it is the stupidity of the other 299,999,999 Americans.  You by your little lonesome, no matter how right and correct, cannot overcome such odds and will have to suffer the consequences of the majority’s ignorance.  Acknowledging these lopsided odds allows you to let go and enjoy life.  Besides, ignorant people are definitely one of the things you will never control.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/2/270/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} But rational as my expectations were, they weren’t realistic.  There were no such women in Casper.  Most of them were overweight.  Most of them didn’t have the patience or desire to learn to dance.  Most of them were not receptive to having an “advance” or request made of them to ballroom dance.  And so no matter how reasonable and rational I was being in my expectations, those expectations were trumped by something far more powerful - reality.  
	  
	   
	  
	  Sadly this “rational vs. realistic paradox” applies in another regard when it comes to a pillar of American life.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/2/278/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The American Dream (typically defined as a house, a career and a family) is not outlandish nor egregious in terms of rational expectations.  Most people SHOULD be able to buy a house.  Most people SHOULD be able to have a family.  Most people SHOULD be able to have a decent career.  And most people SHOULD be able to afford children.  But with economic growth decreasing and a mandate by the American electorate to pursue socialism the American Dream is not only under threat, but becoming outright impossible for most youth.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/2/282/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} First, in order to achieve the American Dream you need money, namely a career.  With the Great Recession unemployment has been at European levels and nearly double that for younger generations.  This also does not speak to underemployment where some estimates have half of people under 25 working nowhere near their potential.  Sure they have a job, but with a master’s degree they’re only making $9 per hour as the local barista.  Further crippling the financial future of most youth is their crushing student debt.  Even if they were gainfully employed they still have to service their mountain of student loans, leaving little, if any money for the purchase of a home.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/2/286/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Second, let’s talk about the home.  Not only have our younger generations suffered an education bubble, they also witnessed the housing bubble.  You would think the lower prices that ensued with the popping of the bubble would help them, but unfortunately the consequential government regulation makes it nearly impossible for recent college graduates to qualify for a loan.  Worse still are the young go getters who were ahead of the curve and bought property before the bubble burst.  Not only are they most likely underwater on their mortgages, they are unlikely to get refinanced because of the sea of red tape they must go through to qualify for HARP, HARP II, HARP III, The Return of HARP and whatever other nonsense has come out of Washington.  Finally, the housing bubble and the ensuing financial crisis has put a bad taste in the mouths of any future prospective home buyers.  Seeing their parents get foreclosed on, the stress involved with trying to get refinanced, or seeing their friends suffer the same, younger generations view housing as a liability, not an asset.  And forever increasing property taxes may prove them right.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/2/290/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Third, most people’s American Dream includes a spouse at some point or another.  Again, the poor economy and even poorer earnings prospects of young American men make it hard to propose when they can barely afford a wedding ring, let alone their rent.  However, what makes this component of the American Dream doubly impossible are the “advances” made by feminism which have simply corrupted the quality and caliber of both men and women, rendering most unmarriageable.  
	  
	   
	  
	  Women, led to believe the lie they can “have it all,” are more interested in a Sex in the City lifestyle than marrying and starting a family.  Also, with society and government solely focusing on the advancement of women with no regard to men, most American women now suffer from solipsism making them unfit for marriage.  Men are no better.  With an appalling lack of male role models and male influence in their upbringing they are weak, out of shape, physically unattractive and unmotivated.  Spiritually and emotionally they are defeated and indifferent, opting instead to play video games and drink, or worse, they become hipsters, major in the liberal arts and vainly try to live up to the standards feminists have set for them.  This results in a dating pool of men who are no longer capable of providing for women who are no longer capable of supporting men, all of which can expect a 50% divorce rate should they be foolish enough to wed.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/2/298/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Fourth and finally, children.  Say you were lucky enough to find a qualified spouse.  Do you dare risk bringing children into this world?  Each one costs an estimated $250,000 – a price tag that is prohibitively expensive.  And what about the kids’ financial futures themselves?  Each child born today is estimated to inherit $200,000 in debt and that says nothing about what kind of economic opportunity (or lack thereof) that child will have in their future.  Also, what about the legal risks?  False accusations of child abuse, a state all too eager to “educate” and rear your child.  And once again, the constantly looming threat of divorce is always a disproportionate threat against men deterring them from starting a family in the first place.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/2/302/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Add all these things up and it’s apparent the American Dream is dead.  Not only is it too risky in terms of marrying the wrong person and having kids you can’t afford, but the economic fundamentals necessary to afford the dream just aren’t there.  Even if most young Americans wanted to pursue the American Dream they can’t simply on the grounds they can’t afford it.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/2/318/4/1:92%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} While yours and mine and everybody else’s American Dreams are rapidly being destroyed, that doesn’t mean we can’t have new ones.  Dreams that are not only rational and feasible, but not so fraught with legal and financial risks.   However, it is hard to give up on your true American Dreams you fell in love with.  How do you decide not to get married?  How do you decide not to have kids?  How do you accept you will never experience your childhood dreams?
	  
	   
	  
	  The answer is simple  - you have no choice.  You must abide by reality.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/2/334/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} I climbed over 12 peaks in the Big Horn and Rocky Mountain Ranges.  I made at least a dozen road trips out west visiting over 15 national parks.  I hiked over 300 miles in the most beautiful parts of the country.  I attended the Sturgis and Beartooth Path motorcycle rallies.  Made a cross country trip to Phoenix and back on my motorcycle.  Shot AR-15’s every other weekend.  Wrote a book.  Learned to clean out a carburetor.  All of this interspersed with agate hunting, fossil hunting and tornado chasing.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/2/368/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Labor vs. Leisure
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/2/372/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The final psychological adjustment you must make is living your life in accordance with leisure, not labor.  This is not only a large psychological adjustment, but arguably the most difficult one to make because it goes against your biology.  Ever since humans have existed it has been hardwired into our genetic programming to work hard.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/2/376/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Second, for Real Americans the desire to work hard is reinforced culturally.  You’re told if you go to school, study hard, work hard, put the extra time in at the office, you will be successful.  The problem here is that it takes at least until you’re 30 to realize whether or not this is true.  By that time, whether you actually are successful or not doesn’t matter.  It’s been engrained in your psychology since kindergarten and you still can’t turn it off.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/2/388/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} It’s more difficult than you might think.  This is evidenced by a little-known problem that plagues retirees - depression and suicide AFTER retirement.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/2/396/10/1:72%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Imagine how hard you’re going to have to fight against depression when you aren’t even retirement age, you’re most likely in your prime, and you still purposely decide to clock out and go Galt.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/2/404/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Call it whatever euphemism leftists want – egalitarianism, social justice, progressive taxation, progressivism – it all boils down to that same thing - slavery.  One group of people are working and slaving away for another group of people.  Yes, people and politicians will try to rationalize it.
	  
	   
	  
	  “The recipients of welfare are worse off than you.”
	  
	  “The recipients of your tax dollars have been discriminated against/are disadvantaged.”
	  
	  “The woman on EBT is a single mother.”
	  
	  “How dare you not want to help the poor!”
	  
	   
	  
	  But it still doesn’t change the fact that they are economic parasites and you are the host.  You are a slave to them.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/2/442/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} It is the parasite-host relationship that should give people the anger necessary to forgive themselves for pursuing leisure over labor.  It is the word “slave” that should enrage you to the point you can override your genetic hard-wiring and have no regret or depression in opting to “Go Galt.”  And it is the fact society has confirmed this is the path the country is going to go down that should only reinforce your decision.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/2/450/2/1:426%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The unemployment rate confirms the labor market is still flooded.  Underemployment rates show there really are no good jobs out there anyway.  And record-high “time spent unemployed” practically proves leisure will be forced upon you.  Fighting this economic reality is merely futile.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/2/454/2/1:265%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} over time government spending has gone from about 5% GDP in the early 1900’s to 40% today.  This roughly translates into your overall tax rate being 40% for state, federal, and local taxes.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/2/462/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} However, not all 40% of your money goes to other people.  Some of it goes to roads, infrastructure, defense, schools, etc., all of which are considered “public goods” and not income transfers.  These budgetary items account for a whopping 30% of the federal budget and roughly the same for state and local budgets.  In other words, 70%, SEVENTY PERCENT OF YOUR TAX MONEY GOES TO OTHER PEOPLE, meaning the government is not an agent of governance as much as it is an agent of wealth-redistribution.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/2/468/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} So if 40% of your income goes to a budget where 70% of it is spent on other people, that means 28% OF YOUR TIME IS SPENT BEING A SLAVE OR HOST TO OTHER PARASITES.  More if you’re foolish enough to “try hard” and “become successful.” Out of a 50 year career that’s 14 YEARS OF VACATION you could have had, but instead you were literally a slave to somebody else for those 14 years.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/2/2[calibre_pb_13]/2[JI-41c93b8ab58844489b1e3371d6f6216e]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} CHAPTER 2
	  
	  THE NEW ECONOMIC REALITY
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/2/62/2/1:9%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} the problem with these various forms of cultural decay is there is no mathematical way to measure it.  How do you measure the repulsiveness of Seth Rogen against the suave debonair behavior of Gary Grant?  How do you measure the decay from Duke Ellington to “Snoop Dog?”  How do you measure the drop in quality from a “June Cleaver” to a Sandra Fluke?
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/2/90/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Obviously, we want GDP growth to be as high as possible.  The more our economy grows, the better off we are as a nation.  However, this growth must be “real growth” meaning growth absent of inflation.  So what economists actually focus on is a slight variant called “real GDP” – GDP that has been adjusted for a change in prices.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/2/102/2/1:4%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} when we average it out over the course of 20 years we get what I like to call “generational real GDP growth” – i.e. – what is the long term trend of the economic growth of our nation?  What we see here is arguably the most telling sign of our decline – our economic growth is slowing.  And not just slowing, it is nearly half of what it used to be during our glory days from the 1940’s to the 1960’s.
	  
	   
	  
	  During that time our economy was growing at an average of 4.25%.  It has since dropped to 2.5%.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/2/110/4/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} To the untrained eye this may not seem all that bad.  “What’s a mere 2% per year?” one might ask.  The problem is in the mathematics of compounding.  In losing 2% growth per year, in 50 years you have forfeited economic growth equal to 100% of the original economy.  However, the mathematics of compounding are even more powerful than that.  Since this is annualized economic growth, that means “growth upon all the growth of previous years” is also forfeited.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/2/130/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Had the United States economy kept up the average growth rate it had from the 1940’s to the 1960’s it would be double what it is today.  Instead of the current $14 trillion (in 2005 dollars) we have today, we could have had an economy equivalent to $26 trillion.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/2/134/2/1:313%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} measure is called “GDP per Capita” which is essentially the same as “Income per Capita”(i.e.-the average amount of money a person can expect to make in a year).  Our historical real GDP per capita looks like this:
	  
	   
	  
	  
	  
	  In short the average person in the United States today can expect to make somewhere around $42,000 per year.  But had our economy grown at its traditional rate of 4.25% the average person would not be making a paltry $42,000 per year.  It would be closer to…
	  
	   
	  
	  $99,832 (in 2012 dollars)
	  
	   
	  
	  This means the average person in the United States would have been making that coveted “six figure salary” had we just kept doing what we were doing.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/2/166/2/1:569%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The labor market determines what kind of career and what kind of education people should pursue.  Subsequently the labor market ultimately determines what kind of a career people will have.  It will determine what kind of income they earn and thus the standards of living they will enjoy during their entire lives.  And it will also have an effect on future generations as the financial well-being of parents does have an effect on their children.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/2/190/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Historically, economists consider a 5% unemployment rate “good.”  You would think “Well, wouldn’t 0% be better?”  However, 5% is deemed to be the “natural rate” where people willingly quit jobs to pursue better opportunities.  Regardless, debates about what is the “natural rate” or what is a “good” unemployment rate are moot because the last time we saw an unemployment rate of 5% was in 2008.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/2/194/2/1:118%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Though not as high during the Volcker Recession in the early 80’s, unemployment has remained stubbornly high, failing to drop rapidly after it peaked as is usual for most recessions.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/2/198/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Unfortunately, the employment picture does not improve from here.  One of the main reasons is the difference between the “unemployment rate” and the “labor force participation rate.”  The single biggest misconception about the unemployment rate is that it is the “percent of the POPULATION that can’t find jobs.”  If this were the case, EVERYBODY would be assumed to be looking for jobs.  Are you going to have 93 year Gertrude slave away as a barista?  Or perhaps force her 6 year old great grandson Tim to slave away in the coal mines?  Of course not.  Two major groups of people – retirees and children – are obviously not looking for jobs so we don’t consider them when we are calculating the unemployment rate; we only consider people officially in the “labor force.”
	  
	   
	  
	  Therefore, a much more important statistic is the “labor force participation rate” or in English, “what percent of able-bodied people are willing to work.”
	  
	  Here we must pay attention to semantics because they have ramifications.
	  
	   
	  
	  To be considered part of the labor force, you need to be:
	  
	  1.        Between 16-64
	  
	  2.       Able to work
	  
	  3.       and ACTIVELY LOOKING for work
	  
	  So even if you are an able-bodied 28 year old man with no problems whatsoever, if you decide to go on the government dole and no longer look for a job, you aren’t accounted for in the unemployment rate because you are not considered to be part of the labor force.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/2/224/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Sadly, our employment picture only gets worse.  Because what is considered “employment?”  If you have a doctorate in engineering, but can only work as a stock boy at the local grocer are you really employed?  Technically yes, but nowhere near your capacity.  This speaks to another problem plaguing this economy - UNDERemployment.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/2/234/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The final employment statistic, though not commonly cited, speaks volumes as to the severity of this recession and no doubt clinches the title “Worst Economy Since the Great Depression.”
	  
	   
	  
	  Civilian Unemployment Over 27 Weeks
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/2/268/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} For in order to get a job in today’s labor market you need to invest an incredible amount of time and resources qualifying yourself.  You not only need to get a degree, you need to have the right experience.  And not only do you need the right experience, you need to attend the right college.  And not only do you need to attend the right college, you need to have the right contacts.  And not only do you need to have the right contacts, you need the right certifications.  And not only do you need the right certifications, you need the right extra-curricular activities on your resume.  The list goes on and on.
	  
	   
	  
	  By the time it’s all said and done, you have spent 4-6 years of your youth pursuing a degree, $100,000 on tuition, another $10,000 on certification programs, and thousands of hours networking, kissing ass, interning and hobnobbing, all to have at best a marginal chance of getting hired.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/2/290/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The reality is most jobs and careers just plain suck.  They never materialize the way they’re advertised.  They’re mundane, they boring, they’re life-draining.  You’re never challenged, you’re rarely rewarded, and no matter how smart you are, after years and years of sitting in cubicle after cubicle your mind will atrophy.  Jobs are also highly insecure, subject to the whims of the economy, a hostile takeover, a restructuring, or a paranoid, sadistic boss.  You suffer office politics, pettiness, and faux harassment complaints, all of which does nothing more than shorten your life expectancy and lessen your standard of living.
	  
	   
	  
	  In other words, even if you “succeed” in landing a job, you still fail.  Most employers are so manipulative and dysfunctional you wouldn’t want the job in the first place.  Besides, with the labor market so flooded with desperate job-seekers, employers can afford to be arrogant, picky and stingy.  This attitude makes most corporate gigs insufferable.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/2/302/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} First, realize there are certain skills and trades that are going to be in demand no matter how bad the economy.  Skills and trades we’ve largely “poo pooed” in the past 40 years: electricians, plumbers, mechanics, welders, etc.,
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/2/302/2/1:723%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Additionally, these trades are “local,” meaning they cannot be outsourced to “Punjab” in New Delhi to remotely trouble shoot a computer program over the internet at 50 cents per hour.  Finally, the trades have the added benefit of being your own boss.  You run your business how you want, make the decisions how you please, and there’s no middle management boss being the bane of your existence 8 hours a day.  If you are so inclined a career in the trades is a viable and profitable option usually requiring only two years of schooling and no pre-requisite classes in 15th Century Guatemalan Lesbian Poetry.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/2/326/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Finally, you have one last option – don’t work.
	  
	   
	  
	  Did you already forget the implications of the 2012 election?
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/2/338/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Here you have two “sub-options” because I know how distasteful the idea of “not working” is to most Real Americans. 
	  
	   
	  
	  One, you can work VERY LITTLE and still get by.  If you have no major financial obligations (children, mortgage, etc.) the average person can easily get by on $15,000 per year.  This amount can be earned quite easily by either working full time at some menial job, or part time as an independent contractor with some semblance of a skill.  
	  
	  
	  Two, you can just go full parasite opting instead to live off the government.  Again, this may be distasteful, but this is the reality forced upon you by the electorate.  It’s like playing a soccer game and then in the middle of the game the refs change the rules so you can use your hands. However, you decide out of some kind of loyalty or nostalgia to continue to only play with your feet.  Good luck winning.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/2/348/2/1:278%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} labor market realities no longer make that a viable option.  We have a choice to accept this and base our decisions around this new reality or continue to be delusional about it…
	  
	   
	  
	  spending 4-8 years getting degrees that will never pay off…
	  
	   
	  
	  working at jobs that will destroy our minds…
	  
	   
	  
	  paying taxes that will never benefit us…
	  
	   
	  
	  wondering on our deathbeds why we wasted such a high percentage of our lives doing so.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/2/372/2/1:92%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} arguably the most compelling reason to throw in the towel and enjoy the decline is the size and growth of government.  The reason the size of government is so important is because government can only grow at the expense of the individual.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/2/382/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Barring instances of world war, we see the general trend has been for government to grow.  Federal spending has gone from 3% GDP in the early 1900’s to over 30% today (imagine having a tax rate of only 3%!).  And this says nothing about state and local spending, which can easily add another 10-15% depending on the state you live in.  In short this roughly correlates to a tax rate of around 40%, sometimes easily over 50% depending on your state.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/2/386/2/1:150%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} government has grown our economic growth has slowed.  When we juxtapose the “Generational Real GDP Growth Rate” discussed previously against government’s size as a percent of GDP, it shows us just how clear and strong this relationship is.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/2/416/2/1:99%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} deficit spending.  With government spending regularly exceeding government revenues, the United States has historically run deficits.  These deficits can also be converted to a percent of GDP to measure just how large and severe these deficits are.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/2/426/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Theoretically at least, you would think the government would run a balanced budget during peacetime or (dare I suggest) a SURPLUS to create a “rainy day fund.”  Unfortunately, as shown before, the government has become an agent of wealth redistribution, not governance.  This means politicians have great incentive to spend money on various social programs, effectively bribing people into voting for them.  But the particularly cunning aspect of this plan is the use of debt to postpone the payment of those services.   In borrowing the money to pay for these services the people get to enjoy the benefits of government spending without the commensurate increase in taxes to pay for them.  If the plan is pulled off perfectly, not only the people, but the politicians die before the debt is called due forcing future “sucker” generations to pay for the previous generation’s spending binge.  In short, they may not cheat death, but they did cheat taxes.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/2/430/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Inevitably such financial sins build up and just like “deficits as a percentage of GDP” we can also measure “debt to GDP.”  Debt is nothing more than the accumulated deficits the government has run in the past.  Just like if you spent $4,000 more than you took in for three years, your “deficit” would be $4,000 per year, while your total debt at the end of those three years would be $12,000.  The federal debt however is just a tad bit larger - $16 trillion.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/2/446/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The implications of this debt, combined with the fact 70% of the federal budget is spent on wealth redistribution, sadly only confirms the worst of our fears.  Previous generations, ignorant about basic public financing, didn’t bother to think about the financial consequences of profligate government spending.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/2/446/2/1:478%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} our stewards merely indebted the nation, enslaved their own children, all with the added benefit of solving none of those social problems.  The people responsible for this financial train wreck will die before paying the consequences, leaving the bill instead to innocent future generations…or at least those naïve enough to keep slaving away and paying taxes.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/2/456/4/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The amount of stuff we’ve promised ourselves through the government is literally unlimited.  Social security, Medicare, Medicaid, welfare, unemployment, the list goes on and on.  And while 104% debt to GDP is bad today, that is nothing compared to what is about to hit us.  Estimates vary widely, but just social security, Medicare and Medicaid alone are estimated to be underfunded by $45 trillion.  This means we will either have to raise taxes by $45 trillion or borrow an additional $45 trillion to pay for these programs.  You add that $45 trillion to the already existing $16 trillion in federal debt and you have total debt obligations equivalent to 400% GDP.  This means anybody born today is already on the hook for $200,000 in debt they had nothing to do with.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/2/464/2/1:452%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} we have no ability to pay it back.  This leaves the federal government with three remaining options:
	  
	   
	  
	  1.  Inflate their way out of this current mess
	  
	  2.  Repudiate the debt (meaning refuse to pay it and default)
	  
	  3.  Tax or confiscate wealth
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/2/476/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} While inflation is certainly a possibility, printing off $60 trillion in new money would trigger hyperinflation akin to the Weimar Republic.  Economic growth would tank, the dollar would collapse, and nobody would loan us any more money after we purposely and knowingly devalued our currency.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/2/484/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} What is more likely is a “wealth” tax or the outright confiscation of wealth.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/2/488/2/1:239%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} A wealth tax is a tax on something you already bought and paid for, something you own.  For example you pay property taxes on your home.  You didn’t have to make income that year to pay the tax.  You pay regardless of whether you have income or not simply because you have “wealth,” you have a home.
	  
	   
	  
	  Normally when we think of a wealth tax we think of property taxes, estate taxes or car registration fees.  But there is a nice conglomeration of wealth nobody has dared to think would be taxable.   And not just taxable, but easily stolen as well.
	  
	   
	  
	  Your retirement plans.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/2/500/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Estimates vary, but there is roughly $18 trillion invested in the various IRA, 401k and 403b retirement plans.  This also says nothing about the trillions more invested in regular ole brokerage accounts earmarked for retirement.  Even though it doesn’t come close to closing the $60 trillion gap, such a large and liquid pot of gold is irresistible to our progressively socialist politicians looking for perpetual re-election.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/2/504/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} In 2008 Argentina stole the private pensions of its workers, nationalizing those funds to deal with their own debt problems.  Bolivia did the same in 2010, as did Hungary.  And Bulgaria did their own scaled-down version of confiscating people’s private pensions in 2011.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/2/508/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Unfortunately, the Democrats took note of what Argentina did in 2008 and have since bantered around ideas of rescinding the tax benefits of those programs, even outright nationalizing them.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/2/520/2/1:159%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} You get to choose what you pursue as a career, buy what you want, and live where you want.  However, what people fail to realize is just how intrusive and invasive government has already become in their lives.  With the government growing from nearly nothing to nearly half the economy, it has become so large, so pervasive, that it is nearly impossible to do anything without it.  Sure you can start a plumbing business, but nearly 40% of your profits will be confiscated making the government a de facto 40% shareholder.  Sure you can work hard and have a successful career, but the government will take a progressively larger share of your earnings, making you a slave for a progressively higher percentage of your life.  Sure you can own property...well…you don’t really “own it” because in paying property taxes you’re really renting it from the county, but we’ll let you believe you own it.  With government spending accounting for 40% of GDP it is just plain inescapable that it will demand an equivalent percentage of your life.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/2/524/2/1:346%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} if the government consumes 70% of GDP to pay for old, infirm, or unproductive people simply just to live, there is no capital left to start a business, let alone disposable income to buy your goods.  The economic environment has become so poor it makes it impossible for most people to chase their dreams.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/2/528/2/1:99%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} dependency the government force-places on its people.  With government consuming 40% of GDP it’s almost impossible to live life without collecting some form of a government check or subsidy.  And when it comes time to make good on all these entitlement programs, estimates have the government consuming closer to 60% GDP, making true independence nearly impossible
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/2/540/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} You can’t study hard and work hard because you’ll only end up being a slave to the state.
	  
	   
	  
	  You can’t scrimp, budget and save so that someday you can invest in a house or an asset, because the state will merely take it away.
	  
	   
	  
	  You can’t pursue your dreams, starting a company or creating a new invention, because the economy is so poor and government regulation so burdensome, they won’t allow for it.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4/2/4/2[15T-41c93b8ab58844489b1e3371d6f6216e]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} CHAPTER 3
	  
	  THE ART OF MINIMALISM
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4/2/16/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} In the ideal world the relationship between the state and its people would be “symbiotic.”
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4/2/16/2/1:533%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Ideally the same principle would apply to government-citizen relations.  The state provides the people with roads, infrastructure, a fair legal system, defense and other things necessary for economic growth, while the people in return provide the economic production and thus the tax base required to finance the state.  The state serves the people, the people excel and thrive, and a great society is born.
	  
	   
	  
	  While this may have been the case at the founding of the country, unfortunately the relationship between the state and its citizenry has become parasitic.  This fact is no better highlighted than in the previously mentioned chart showing a full 70% of government spending going to income transfers.  These income transfers are parasitic in nature in that they benefit a specific group of people instead of investments, infrastructure, roads, defense, and other public goods which benefits everyone.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4/2/36/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} A second option is to simply leave.  You remove yourself from the parasite denying it the opportunity to continue living off of you.  In the real world this would be akin something like capital flight or investing overseas.  Not everybody has that option, but it is an option that will be discussed in a later chapter. 
	  
	  
	  The third option is to minimize the host in an effort to starve out the parasite.  This would mean minimizing yourself, scaling yourself down so the government has less and less resources to steal.
	  
	   
	  
	  This third option is called “minimalism” and is the optimal of the three.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4/2/54/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} While there is no official definition, minimalism is essentially shrinking your economic production to its absolute minimum.  There are many reasons to do this, but the primary one is to lessen the amount of wealth or income a parasitical state (or people) can take.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4/2/74/2/1:215%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Up until meeting him I had prided myself on my ability to get by on very little.  In the 90’s I was able to pay for college, in full, including living expenses all on about $15,000 per year.  In my twenties I lived in a renovated basement so I could rent out an additional unit in a duplex that I owned.  And it wasn’t until very recently that I decided to stop sleeping at waysides in my car while on road trips.  I am an incredibly cheap guy.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4/2/82/2/1:326%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} where he really beat me was when he broke the “Holy and Sacred Code of Bachelors” and decided to ….
	  
	   
	  
	  COOK BREAKFAST AT HOME!!!
	  
	   
	  
	  It was here I knew I was outdone.  There was no way I could compete with that.
	  
	   
	  
	  So out of curiosity I asked him how much he needed to live and I was not surprised when he said, “About $11,000 per year.”  This jived with my numbers in that I came in around $13,000, willing to splurge on outsourcing my food preparation.
	  
	   
	  
	  Most Americans today cannot fathom living on only $11,000 per year.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4/2/114/4/1:224%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} In general I recommend renting over buying in most circumstances because it grants you freedom and mobility, as well as frees you from the liability of property taxes.  But if you have a family and a stable job, then a house could be the way to go.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4/2/114/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Housing
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4/2/114/4/1:571%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The primary principle that should govern your decision about housing is:
	  
	   
	  
	  “Where is the cheapest, smallest, optimally located place I can sleep that has just enough room to store me and my stuff?”
	  
	   
	  
	  More often than not this means renting a studio, a small one bedroom, or a room from a buddy.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4/2/126/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Get Rid of Your Stuff – Directly related to housing is stuff.  Namely, getting rid of it. 
	  
	   
	  
	  Most people don’t realize this, but you pay for stuff thrice.  First when you buy it.  Second when you store it.  And third when you move it.  A lot of people will say, “But I don’t store my stuff!  It’s in my apartment!”  The problem is you are storing it – in your apartment.  Stuff takes up space.  That means you need more square footage when looking for housing, which means you get to pay more in rent.  You also get to pay more in moving expenses since more stuff means you need a bigger, more expensive truck.  And none of this speaks to the true cost incurred when moving your stuff - the physical torture involved in actually moving it.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4/2/134/2/1:52%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} people woefully underappreciate what getting rid of your stuff can do for your finances.   Though it may be extreme, consider the benefits if you achieved what a minimalist “purist” would contend is ideal – being able to fit all your worldly possessions in a backpack.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4/2/138/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} First, your housing requirements would be nothing.  Theoretically, you could live in your car (and there are actually communities that do on purpose).  But right off the bat your rent could be as low at $200 a month sleeping in a buddy’s basement.  Most people’s financial problems would disappear overnight if they only had to pay $200 a month in rent.
	  
	   
	  
	  Second, the freedom you’d have would be limitless.  You could go anywhere, anytime, with no consequence.  You have everything you need in that backpack.  In having no home, the world is your home.  Go to Mexico, go to Glacier National Park, go wherever you want.  No physical thing is holding you back.
	  
	   
	  
	  Third, maintenance.  What house do you have to repair?  What furniture do you need to replace?  What suits need dry cleaning?  What pet needs to be fed?  Without stuff, there is no expense maintaining them. 
	  
	   
	  
	  Finally, it’s not like you would go without stuff.  The kind men and women at companies like Wal-Mart, Target, and Amazon are only more than happy to pay for the rent, heat, electric and overhead to store your stuff for free!  It’s just a matter of you going there and getting it at your convenience.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4/2/158/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} No Children – While I’m not saying “don’t have children,” children are very expensive “stuffs.”  The average kid costs $250,000 to raise and that doesn’t even include college tuition
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4/2/162/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Buy Used – Second to housing and college, your largest purchases are going to be big ticket items.  Things like cars, electronics, appliances, etc.  There’s no reason to get them new.  Besides, unless the economy improves you can expect a never-ending and heavily discounted supply of these items on Craigslist or at your local pawn shop.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4/2/166/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Repair and Fix Things – In buying used instead of new, learning to repair and fix things becomes another vital component of minimalism.  Being a good mechanic, a good carpenter, or an all-around handyman has many benefits.  First, if you are pursuing minimalism then you should have a fair amount of spare time for maintenance and repair.  Second, even if you have no experience as a handyman, YouTube has a do-it-yourself video for pretty much every type of household or automotive repair you’ll ever need.  Third, you’ll become more proficient at repairing things, not only cutting down on the time it takes to repair things, but improving your skills along the way to the point where you could barter.  Fourth, you’ll save a lot of money.  Fifth, money that was never transacted and therefore not taxable.  And finally, chicks dig guys when they get all greasy and dirty working on cars and motorcycles.  One of the best investments you can make as a minimalist is to buy a good set of tools.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4/2/170/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Coupons and Deals
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4/2/170/4/1:402%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} It is here that (traditionally) women played a vital economic role in the finances of the family, namely increasing purchasing power. 
	  
	   
	  
	  By becoming experts at finding deals, clipping coupons, and comparing prices women made sure the money the men made went the furthest.  Maybe it wasn’t as glorious as going to a downtown office and working on some project, but it was just as important and remains so today for your average minimalist.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4/2/178/2/1:122%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} This isn’t to say you go and clip coupons (though it doesn’t hurt), but you do wait for things to go on sale.  You go to the thrift store or Goodwill.  You wait for happy hour, or you just drink at home.  You take the extra effort to ensure you derive the most purchasing power from your limited dollars.  The alternative is working harder, paying more in taxes, suffering a boss and not enjoying the decline.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4/2/182/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Do Not Save for Retirement – While I will explain in more detail in a later chapter, it is advisable you do NOT save for retirement.  This sounds counterintuitive, but (given the risk of confiscation previously discussed) contributing to a retirement program is the OPPOSITE of minimalizing yourself.  You are unnecessarily exposing yourself and converting your time into a tangible asset that can be confiscated in the future.  Thankfully not contributing to a retirement plan frees up a couple hundred dollars a month for you to go and enjoy the decline.  The trick is to let go of the guilt many people will have in not saving for retirement.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4/2/186/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Start Your Own Side Business – If you only need $15,000 a year to live, why not earn it doing something you enjoy?  Yes, you could work for an employer, but most jobs that are going to pay $15,000 a year or let you work part time as such are likely to be menial and unrewarding.  Besides, there are some fringe benefits to having your own company.  You get to write things off you normally wouldn’t (lowering what little you pay in taxes even more).  You can always scale your work to the amount of money you need.  And there’s always the priceless and non-taxable benefit of having no boss to answer to.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4/2/190/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Catastrophic Health Insurance – Most people complain about the cost of health insurance.  Well…”most people” meaning people who have to have the absolute best most comprehensive coverage.  The people who when little Jimmy coughs they rush him to the emergency room.  People who insurance companies know are sue-happy and price the premiums accordingly.  Those are considered “comprehensive health insurance” plans.  For a minimalist, you only need one type of health insurance – catastrophic health insurance.
	  
	   
	  
	  “Catastrophic” health insurance will not pay for Jimmy’s little bandaid or even little Suzie’s cast, but it will pay for a heart attack, a car crash or something that actually threatens your life and your finances.   In short, it’s only for genuine emergencies.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4/2/194/2/1:385%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} All you do in paying for a “comprehensive” health insurance plan is subsidize those that consume the most health services:
	  
	   
	  
	  1.        Children
	  
	  2.       Women
	  
	  3.       Old people
	  
	   
	  
	  Be smart, get a plan that benefits you and only you.  Costs vary state to state, but you should be able to find something below $150/month as opposed to a comprehensive plan which can easily run $500/month.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4/2/210/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Go to School for Trades, Not “An Education” – If you only need $15,000 per year, what is the point in going to college?  You can just work any ole job, bank the money, and save four years of your life and $50,000 in tuition.  However, there is some merit in getting at least some education, specifically a trade. 
	  
	   
	  
	  A trade, unlike a degree, is scalable.  A plumber can determine how many contracts he wants to work.  A computer networker can determine how many routers he wants to set up.  And a chimney sweeper can determine how many chimneys he cleans.  But if you get a degree most of the jobs available to you are going to be salaried, meaning you have to put in 40+ hours per week.  You can’t just work 10 hours per week or four months of the year and quit
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4/2/222/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The other major reason you want to get some kind skill or trade is because it increases the amount of free time you will have.  I envy one of my friends who is a high-end computer networker.  He charges $200 per hour.  He only has to work two hours per week, and chooses to, simply because he lives such a Spartan lifestyle.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4/2/226/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Elope, No Weddings – Ladies if you really love the man you will be honest enough to admit that “your day” has everything to do with you and nobody else.  A very expensive, fleeting, temporary day that will cripple your finances for the next 7 years which in turn will increase your chances for divorce, thus negating “your day.”  Elope instead.  The average wedding costs around $20,000.  That’s enough to last a minimalist couple a year travelling around the world.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4/2/230/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Entertain at Home – If I want to see a movie, I have two choices.  Drive, wait in line, drop $12 a ticket, suffer some pathetic-excuse-of-a-parent’s children crying, while trying to sneak a beer into the theater,
	  
	   
	  
	  or
	  
	   
	  
	  I can just stay at home, Redbox or Netflix the movie, watch it in stunning quality on my LCD projector, with surround sound, all while nursing a scotch served to me by my long-legged girlfriend. 
	  
	   
	  
	  While it may cost a bit, it is wise to make an investment in entertainment equipment at home.  Not just electronics, but any entertainment (booze, bar, games, etc.).  The reason why is you’ll save money, time, and gas by not going out.  This doesn’t mean you become a hermit, but by staying in for your entertainment and hosting friends at home you will easily recoup the investment you made in a few short years.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4/2/246/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Get a Motorcycle – Though optional a motorcycle actually does help achieve an element of minimalism in that it is cheap transportation.  You get great gas mileage, maintenance and repair is quite easy, they’re fun as hell, plus chicks dig motorcycles.  I also believe for a minimalist a motorcycle is the quintessential statement piece.  Nothing says, “independent maverick doing their own thing, living their own life” than a bike.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4/2/258/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Benefits of Minimalism
	  
	   
	  
	  While lower taxes and a shorter work week are the obvious benefits of minimalism there are other benefits not realized until you’re actually practicing it.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4/2/266/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Freedom from Employers –The value of having no boss, or making so little you needn’t be subjected to the psychotic whims of a boss, is probably the single largest benefit to minimalism.  Having the ability to just walk off the job if being treated unfairly is worth at least $50,000 in non-taxable income.  There are also health and psychological benefits in not having to deal with abusive and dishonest employers.  Lower blood pressure, less stress, lower risk of stroke, all because you had the fiscal discipline to make it so your boss is not necessary for your life.  This benefit will only increase in value as it is my sincere belief a flooded labor market, with increasingly desperate people, has put most employers on a power trip.  They are becoming more controlling, demanding, sadistic, and dishonest to the point I don’t believe anybody can work for one employer for 10 years and not suffer some kind of psychological damage.  Employment is a losing proposition.  Minimalism gives you the option not to take it.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4/2/270/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Better Mental and Physical Health – Directly related to working less is improved mental health.  With more leisure and less financial demands the amount of stress you will suffer is a fraction of what most of your full-time counterparts will.  Additionally, you can sleep in, eat healthier and exercise more improving your physical health and increasing your life expectancy.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4/2/274/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} A Better Social Life – In having more leisure naturally you will have an improved social life.  Coffee in the morning, cigars in the afternoon, cocktails in the evening, whatever you want to do with your Mondays.  You can join clubs, take classes, learn to dance, all those things you wanted to do but “couldn’t” because you had to work.  Along the way it is a guarantee you are going to meet new people and develop new friendships, making your life even more rewarding.  Besides, your social life was not meant to be spent talking about your weekend over the water cooler.  It was meant to be sweet-talking a cute girl while salsa dancing on the dance floor.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4/2/278/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Better Family Life and Children
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4/2/282/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} You could be that couple.
	  
	   
	  
	  But you’re not. 
	  
	   
	  
	  You’re the single-income family where one of the spouses stays at home and raises the children.  Packs them off to school.  Helps them with their homework.  You can’t afford to take the kids to Europe like the couple down the street, but that’s alright.  The kids really loved the Black Hills and Mount Rushmore.   And you can’t afford dance lessons, but you still dance with your daughter in the basement using an instructional video you rented and some MP3’s.  You don’t lease the newest Lexus, but you own that reliable used Ford free and clear.  And when your spouse comes home you all have dinner, watch your favorite TV show, and maybe the Mrs. pours the hubby an adult beverage as the kids go to sleep.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4/2/298/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} A Better Intellectual Life – It wasn’t until I was older in life did I appreciate more intellectual things.  School was so boring and the teachers so lacking in genuine intelligence and interest, it drove me (and millions of other young kids) screaming for home to play video games and watch cartoons.  Because most teachers were so poor and so inept, they left a bad taste in most people’s mouths when it came to education and expanding one’s mind.  However, this is a tragedy because one of the most enjoyable life experiences a person can have is expanding the mind and engaging in intellectual pursuits. 
	  
	   
	  
	  Good conversation, debate, studying history, pursuing new hobbies or studies, philosophy, talk radio, mathematics, etc., a limitless treasure of knowledge, thought and intellectual challenge is out there for everybody to avail.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4/2/306/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Unfortunately, after 13 years of K-12 faux-education and an additional four years of collegiate brainwashing most people’s minds are mush.  And instead of getting a respite, allowing their brains to recover from nearly two decades of abuse, they simply plug themselves into the corporate machine, working a job that further liquefies their minds.  At the end of the day when they’re finally released from their mental prison, their brains are not dying to consume the works of Plato or learn another language.  They just want to sit down, do nothing and veg out watching reality TV shows.  The death of the mind is arguably the highest price corporate cogs pay.  You needn’t suffer that.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4/2/314/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Less Anger -  One of the most enraging things that would get my blood boiling was watching immigrants who came to this country, not speaking a lick of English, buy their groceries with their EBT card.  Similarly enraging was having the local WIC office located across the street from my office during my Wyoming days.  Every day around lunchtime I got to see single mother after single mother go in there with three or four kids, all obese and certainly not lacking any food, rendering the first two hours of my day nothing more than slaving away for them.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4/2/322/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} In making only $15,000 a year you are essentially shrinking yourself (the host) so much that parasites cannot live off of you.  Your federal tax rate is only 15% and with the standard deduction you’ll only be taxed on about $9,000 in income.  So your final tax bill is $1,350.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4/2/326/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Getting rid of the parasites and knowing you are no longer paying for them is quite a liberating feeling.  You will no longer get mad when you see another ringless mother buying diapers with an EBT card.  You will no longer care when the local school district demands more money.  You won’t even sneeze when they talk about the national debt.  It’s no longer your money they using to pay for it.  It’s somebody else’s.  You may still be unhappy about the general direction of the country, but at least you’re no longer a sucker who has to pay for it.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4/2/330/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} More Travel – The primary reason people can’t travel is not money.  It’s time.  They don’t have enough vacation time.  But you will with your new minimalism lifestyle.  The quality of your vacations will also improve.   They won’t be those “rushing vacations” where you race to every tourist trap, never get to take in any of the culture, let alone actually enjoy the vacation.  No, you’re going to be sitting in that Italian village on the Mediterranean for at least a week.  May never leave the wine bar.  Just sitting and looking at the sea.  Maybe you’ll go to the other wine bar down the street….nah…that would take too much effort.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4/2/334/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Sleep – While people are suffering their daily two-hour commute, racing towards a stroke at age 47, you’ll be sleeping in.  Though, if you wake up early, you can do what I do - drive down to the local over-pass, light up a cigar and watch people suffer their Monday morning traffic jam.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4/2/338/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Higher Chance of Becoming Rich – Counterintuitive as it may sound, you stand a much higher chance at becoming rich pursuing minimalism as opposed to slaving away for an employer.  The reason is two-fold.  First, it’s nearly impossible to become rich working for somebody else.  Understand while you can be promoted and make more money, the nature of your employer is to maximize profits for the owner, not you.  This puts your self-interests in direct opposition to that of the owner.  Not that this is evil or bad on anyone’s part, it just is how it is.  So there will always be that force keeping your salary as low as possible.  And given the all the unemployed people more than happy to take your job, your employer can deliver that threat. 
	  
	   
	  
	  Second, most rich people are unique, not conformists.  Nothing against your average corporate cubicle slave, but they lack the audacity and innovation to think beyond getting promoted to assistant project manager.  Furthermore, they don’t have the time to dream up or concoct business ideas.  They work a boring job, the duties of which kill any innovation, and by the time they get home they just want to veg not develop a new product.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4/2/354/2/1:133%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The benefits of the traditional American life are just not worth the price, let alone the risk.  From an employment standpoint you are asked to give up nearly all of your youth pursuing degrees and certifications, with no guarantee of employment in return.  Even if you do find employment, the labor market is so bad it has given employers a superiority complex, making most jobs insufferable and psychologically damaging.  And even if you do manage to survive such a hostile environment with your sanity intact, the state is bound to be taking more and more of your money.  Minimalism not only frees you from being dependent upon such a system, it delivers benefits that exceed any amount of money you could make as a working slave.  You are allowed to live and enjoy life to its maximum potential, as well as develop yourself to your maximum human potential.  You maximize the percentage of your finite life spent on leisure instead of labor.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/22/2/4/2/4/2[1IG-41c93b8ab58844489b1e3371d6f6216e]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} CHAPTER 4
	  
	  MORTAL
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/22/2/4/2/20/2/1:205%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} And while giving you specific advice on buying motorcycles, getting rid of your stuff, eloping, etc., certainly helps, it won’t address every problem or challenge you’ll face in your life.  Therefore it is better to understand a simple philosophy that will guide you throughout the rest of your life and that philosophy is one of mortality.
	  
	   
	  
	  You are going to die.
	  
	   
	  
	  Understanding and accepting death is the key to maximizing and getting the most out of your life.  The amount of time you have on this planet is finite, it is precious, and only until you realize this will you be able to go out and truly enjoy the decline.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/22/2/4/2/36/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Tenet #1 - Underestimating Death
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/22/2/4/2/36/4/1:201%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Do you remember anything before you were born?  No?  Then that’s a pretty good indication of what it will be like after you die.  Nothingness.  An absolute absence of thought, consciousness, awareness, memory, or existence.  It won’t be painful or unpleasant.  It just won’t be.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/22/2/4/2/40/2/1:110%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} o matter how sucky your life, you get to wake up every day and think, feel, see, and touch.  It’s a movie being played in front of your very eyes where you are the main actor.  It may not be the best movie, but it’s your movie and you get to do whatever you want in it.  When this movie is over, there is no more getting up, having coffee, talking to your loved ones, stubbing your toes, getting drunk, hitting your thumb with a hammer or the millions of other stimulations your brain receives every day.  It’s over.  You will cease to exist. But the real loss is that you will no longer even be aware of yourself.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/22/2/4/2/44/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} This should be the 12 cylinder engine of inspiration (and even fear) driving you to live life to its fullest.  It should be the epiphany that makes you stop doing the same damn, boring crap you do every day and start doing what you want before it’s too late.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/22/2/4/2/48/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Tenet #2 – You Come First
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/22/2/4/2/48/4/1:97%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} his does not mean you live your life at the expense of others or engage in criminal activity.  And it doesn’t mean you don’t put loved ones ahead of you in that is arguably the definition of love.  But you don’t pointlessly submit yourself to anybody else unless that somehow benefits you.  You don’t slave away for other people without some reward (financial or emotional).  You make sure every action in some way benefits you or the people you love.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/22/2/4/2/52/2/1:48%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} society is geared to be more communal than it is individualistic.  Our tax rates are progressive, you are expected to be “honored” or “thankful” for having a job (when nobody asks why the employer shouldn’t be “honored” and “thankful” for having your labor), you are expected to pay for other children’s rearing and education, you are expected to pay for other people’s lives.  People’s feelings and emotions trump your own.  It is not an individualistic society.
	  
	   
	  
	  Worse still, society LOATHES the true individual.  Understand most people are brainwashed to be mediocre and forgettable.  They are told to go to college, get a career, start a family, work 9-5, save up for retirement, live in Florida and die into obscurity.  So when they see somebody living a different life, bucking the trend, and likely living a better life, they get incredibly jealous.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/22/2/4/2/60/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} You don’t want to have kids and prefer a life of luxury?
	  
	   
	  
	  Why you’re “selfish” and “greedy” for not suffering like the rest of us helping maintain the population.
	  
	   
	  
	  Dare to be a bachelor past the age of 35, starting a company, and living a playboy lifestyle?
	  
	   
	  
	  You need to stop being a man-child and start marrying all those single moms who wouldn’t give you the time of day in college “manning up.”
	  
	   
	  
	  Are you financially successful, starting your own business?
	  
	   
	  
	  You better give me some of your money because I’m too lazy to work for it and will rationalize my stealing your money from you by citing things like “white privilege” and sexism benefited unfairly and need to share.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/22/2/4/2/88/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Tenet #3 – Do Not Waste Your Youth
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/22/2/4/2/88/4/1:41%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} society is designed to waste your youth.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/22/2/4/2/92/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Already at the age of 5 adults are lining up to live off of you.  Oh sure they claim they’re “doing it for the children” or “they want to work with children,” but if you look at anybody who declares an education major you’ll see the real reason they’re doing it is for themselves.  It’s an easy job, it’s an easy major, it requires no academic rigor or skill.  Not to mention, if you ask the average 20 year old why they’re majoring in education, more often than not they’ll say,
	  
	   
	  
	  “I get summers off.”
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/22/2/4/2/104/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} This also goes a long way in explaining why school is so dreadfully boring.  If teachers really became teachers because they cared about children, then they would put the work and effort into making education interesting and beneficial to the children.  They wouldn’t just have a passion, but an expertise in the subjects they teach.  They would major in engineering or math or biology, get experience in the real world and THEN teach.  Not simply major in something as generic as “education,” teach from the book, and wonder why their students are falling asleep in class.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/22/2/4/2/120/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The end result for children is they spend, at minimum, 13 years in a mental prison for the benefit of others.  They learn nothing, their brains are destroyed, any raw talent or aptitude they may have had is quickly squashed by the mediocrity of their teachers, and when they finally graduate they operate at a mere fraction of their intellectual potential.  All because a bunch of talentless charlatans wanted to become overpaid babysitters and had no moral problems abusing children in doing so.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/22/2/4/2/128/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} College is merely a repeat of K-12 education.  Most professors and academians didn’t become teachers because of anything as “noble” as educating the children.  They did it because teaching was easy.  They did it because nobody would hire them in the real world.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/22/2/4/2/132/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} In the end the average student indebts himself upwards of $50,000 to pay a group of adults to blather nonsense at them for four years.  They in turn get a piece of paper citing they showed up to class and had a pulse.  However, with no actual skills gained, youth quickly find out the only job they’re qualified to work is as a barista.  17 years of “follow your heart and the money will follow,” “any education is a good education,” and “it doesn’t matter what you major in, it will open doors,” and it was nothing but a big, elaborate, purposeful scam to take advantage of the youth.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/22/2/4/2/160/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Misleading job descriptions, gopher-level work, and refusing to train aside, there is one other major way employers take advantage of youth – requiring a college degree for every job no matter how menial.  Here employers are merely forcing you to participate in the education racket.  Does the job require a bachelor’s degree?  No.  But they’re going to force all you poor kids to unnecessarily spend four years of your youth and $50,000 of your money just to have a chance at getting the job.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/22/2/4/2/168/2/1:153%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} All they do is further contribute to the education bubble, condone progressive credentialism, and ruin the financial lives of young people.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/22/2/4/2/172/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Finally, say you are one of the lucky youth to land a job.  Let’s also say you are incredibly lucky to have a job that doesn’t suck.  You work hard, you make a lot of money, and your career is going great.  Congratulations!  You get to pay for…
	  
	   
	  
	  Social Security and Medicare.
	  
	   
	  
	  If there is proof society is designed to take advantage of and live off of its youth, Social Security and Medicare is it.  Old people who didn’t save up enough of their own money (not to mention, voted in politicians to blow all the money they did contribute away on social programs) effectively makes Social Security and Medicare Ponzi schemes.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/22/2/4/2/192/2/1:86%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Do not try until you’re 35.  The reasons are many.  First, nobody takes you seriously until you’re 35.  You could be the top graduate in your class with internships under your belt and the perfect resume.  Unless you have some gray hair, nobody is going to challenge you or give you a job that uses your skills.  The reason why is because most youth suffer the reputation of their generation.  So when an employer sees OWS protestors defecating on a police car or hipsters being…well…hipsters, they will unfairly lump you in with that crowd.  So work all you want, get as many degrees as you want, and put in all those extra hours at the office, it will all be in vain.  Wait until that work will go noticed.  Wait until you have that “touch of gray.”
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/22/2/4/2/196/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Second, since nobody is going to take you seriously, you might as well remain a kid.  So become a “ski bum.”  Not that you become an actual “ski bum,” but you become whatever variant of “bum” you want to be.  A “video game bum,” a “motorcycle bum,” a “travel bum,” whatever it is you want to do.  This doesn’t mean you don’t work, but (as per The Art of Minimalism) you work just enough to get by and play.  Also, this is the stage of your life to pursue whatever great adventures you want.  Driving to Cape Horn, biking around Europe, climbing Mt. Kilimanjaro, attending the Sturgis Rally.  Whatever it is, do it now, because a lot of you won’t be able to when you’re 55.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/22/2/4/2/184/2/1:357%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Epiphanies about being mortal aside, what’s a young person to do?
	  
	   
	  
	  It’s very simple.  Don’t try until you’re 35.
	  Problems with this:
	  - I personally in a way did this to 31 by trying to pursue entrepreneurship. Now however I'm several years behind my peers like Eman and Tom in my career to earn money coding, and I might have missed the heyday due to the current inflation and poorer job market.
	  - I'm going to be less youthful when I finally get my old place and want to attract a life partner
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/22/2/4/2/200/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Third, like there were jobs for you out there anyway.  Not only are you purposely minimizing work to avoid paying taxes and save your youth, but barring some kind of economic miracle (or a bubble) you can expect your employment prospects to be on par with that of the Great Depression.  Not only will this save you years of your time applying for jobs you’re never going to get, this should assuage any guilt you have for being a “video game bum” instead of a CPA.  Besides, what?  Some employer was just around the corner about to offer you a successful career?  The unemployment rate for youth proves there are no such opportunities.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/22/2/4/2/204/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Finally, since most of the education system is a scam, why waste your time in the system?  Try to minimize the amount of time you spend in it.  Not just college, but K-12 as well.  If there is a way for you to become some kind of home-schooled wunderkind and graduate from high school at the age of 12, then do it.  It will free up more of your youth to enjoy.  Also, until a job, the economy, or your own personal intellectual interest warrants it, there’s no reason to waste your precious youth earning a four year degree.  Instead learn a trade you can carry with you wherever your “motorcycle bumming lifestyle” takes you.  It will make earning money a little easier, allow you to find employment anywhere in the world, and it will be a lot better than living in your parents’ basement.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/22/2/4/2/208/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Tenet #4 – Life is Too Short for Anger
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/22/2/4/2/220/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The consequences of NOT learning this skill and letting anger get the best of you is that it will ruin your life.  We all know these people.  People who, if you were asked to describe the person, you would say, “he’s an angry person.”
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/22/2/4/2/224/2/1:1%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} or the most part feminism has won every societal, sociological, economic, and political battle in the United States.  By all measures and accounts, feminism has won.  But have you ever seen a “happy feminist?”
	  
	   
	  
	  The reason they’re not happy is because feminism has failed to win the one battle that is outside of their control – sexual nature.  Namely the fact men like well-endowed, skinny women and women like strong, chiseled men.  However, in refusing to accept the biological realities of men and women they condemn themselves to failure.  Consequently, they get angry, and their lives are miserable.  
	  
	  
	  But mock and ridicule feminism and feminists all we like, Real Americans run the risk of repeating the exact same mistake – getting angry over something outside our control, namely the collapse of the United States.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/22/2/4/2/234/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} To help, I recommend practicing an experiment I’ve found to be quite useful.  Listen to the Ed Schulz Show or Rachel Maddow’s show and try not to get angry.  Listen to their willful ignorance, their intellectual dishonesty, the painful stupidity of their callers, and then see if you can let it go.  This is a good practice in that it forces you into a situation you do not control, but by all means should be enraging.  So if you can realize your reaction will have no effect on Ed or Rachel, let alone their hopeless callers, you will train yourself to react in the most healthy way possible – shaking your head and laughing.  Not that I’d recommend becoming a regular listener (in that it would lead to depression and suicide), but if you can stomach such blatant lies and propaganda and not get enraged you will have learned a skill that will lead to a happier life (besides, look at just how “happy” Ed and Rachel are).
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/22/2/4/2/238/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Tenet #5 – Carpe Diem
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/22/2/4/2/246/2/1:9%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} as evidenced by the majority of people’s behavior, the vast majority of people might be aware of this advice, but rarely act on it.  Very few people lead interesting or different lives.  And regardless of how many people say, “they’re independent” or they “do their own thing” most people end up living boring lives that are materially no different than vast majority of other people.  So the issue is not one of understanding the concept of “carpe diem” it’s an issue of taking action.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4/2/4/2[1RE-41c93b8ab58844489b1e3371d6f6216e]/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} CHAPTER 5
	  
	  FAMILY AND FRIENDS
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4/2/16/2/1:403%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} What is going to bring us the most amount of happiness.  Thankfully the answer is quite simple and not up for debate. 
	  
	   
	  
	  Other humans.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4/2/24/2/1:190%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} out of everything on this planet, humans are the most interesting, entertaining, dynamic and intellectual things we'll ever run into.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4/2/28/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} For example, have the most advanced video-gaming system out there. It is still finite.  It is still non-sentient.  It cannot think, it cannot challenge you, and cannot engage you beyond what it is programmed to do.  It is limited.  The only reason it CAN challenge you to the extent that it does is because OTHER HUMANS programmed it that way.  Furthermore, what do most people with video games do to maximize their fun?  They go online and PLAY AGAINST OTHER HUMANS, suggesting it is human interaction, not a pre-programmed pixelated campaign to kill Nazi's or zombies that provides genuine stimulation to people.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4/2/32/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Another example - when do you cry?  Chances are when you crash your car or total your motorcycle, etc., you don't cry as much as you get angry.  But when a family member or a loved one dies, you cry.  Why?  Because a human is the only thing you can really love, as well as love you back.  It’s the only thing that can interact with you.  You could even make the same case for pets in that pets, though not as advanced as humans, have some of the same characteristics.  They are not finite, they are not programmed, dogs certainly have personalities, they are dynamic (meaning they don't do the same thing over and over again like a robot), and you can interact with them.  A Ferrari, you can't.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4/2/40/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} This is great news in that the largest threats facing all Real Americans are not social, but rather political and economic.  The government may be able to take away your money, but it can’t take away your friends.  The government may be able to destroy the labor market, but it can’t stop your children from hugging you.  And the government may be able to force you to work until you’re dead, but it can’t stop somebody from loving you.  In other words, take away all material wealth and economic opportunity, the government cannot take away the one thing that makes life worth living – human interaction.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4/2/44/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Furthermore, in punishing work and production, the government is practically condoning your spending more time with friends and loved ones.  If there are no jobs available, then that only means more cigar-smoking time with the guys at the cigar lounge.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4/2/52/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Friends
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4/2/56/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} What makes friends arguably the most important people in your life, is that they don’t have to hang out with you.  They choose to hang out with you.  Unlike the family you were born into, your friends aren’t “honor-bound” by blood or social mores requiring them to spend time with you.  They consciously decide to spend some of their finite, precious time with you.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4/2/60/2/1:63%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} While you can’t pick your family, you can pick your friends.  This effectively makes them your own “personally built family.”  It also makes them the most important thing you’ll ever build.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4/2/60/2/1:425%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} These are the people who will account for the majority of your happiness, the people you will spend the plurality of your free time with, and the people who will give your life meaning.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4/2/64/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Second, because your friends are vetted by you, that means they like you.  Sadly, the same cannot be said about everybody’s family.  A lot of people were brought into the world unwanted or unprepared for.  Poverty, unexpected costs, abuse, divorce, or just plain immaturity on the part of ill-prepared parents has resulted in a lot of dysfunctional families and a lot of unloved people.  Thankfully, just because the first 18 years of your life may not have been enjoyable, doesn’t mean you have to suffer the remainder of your life.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4/2/68/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Third, your friends are most likely going to be the single largest source of intellectual stimulation and engagement in your life.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4/2/92/2/1:479%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} That was the reason for being there – interesting and quality conversation.  And while having fun and hanging out with friends is certainly enjoyable, it is quality conversation that makes a quality friend.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4/2/100/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Family
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4/2/108/2/1:32%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} compare and contrast the single, childless lifestyle versus that of starting and raising a family.  The first thing you’ll notice is that one is relatively risk free and the other is full of risk.  Matter of fact, starting a family is most likely going to be the riskiest thing you do in your life.  There are financial risks in that now you are responsible to feed, clothe and house your family members.  There are legal risks in that if you and your spouse do not see eye to eye it will likely end up in divorce.  And there are emotional risks in that if you and your spouse fail at marriage, your relationship and your children will suffer.  All of this in the context of a decaying economic environment which is bound to put stress on you and your family.  Given the prevalence of divorce, this requires blunt, forthright and truthful talk about the risks and responsibilities people have when it comes to raising a family.  For while a family can be the most rewarding experience in a person’s life, if done wrong it can be the bane of your existence.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4/2/116/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The Husband’s Responsibilities
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4/2/120/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} #1 Choose a Good Wife
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4/2/124/2/1:158%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Advances in feminism aside, women are still too cowardly to propose to men, thus leaving the first and most important decision about starting a family to the man – who will I start this family with?
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4/2/134/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} 1.        “It’s not if you can live with her, it’s if you can’t live without her.”  If you don’t feel compelled to propose to the girl, then she is not it.  You need to need her.
	  
	  2.       Kindness trumps intelligence.  I don’t care how “intelligent” the girl is, if she isn’t nice, it won’t matter.  You need a wife that likes you and is kind to you. 
	  
	  3.       The most important thing in her life is you.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4/2/140/2/1:590%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} red flags.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4/2/144/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} A  Truly Independent Woman? -  Does she support herself, or merely brag about how independent she is while she works as a part-time, non-profit charity counselor?  You need a TRULY independent woman.  Not a poser.  Truly independent women do not brag about it, they just do it.  While you may fashion yourself the majority bread winner of the family, there will come times (especially during the decline) when you’ll need her to take the lead.  If she is “faux-independent,” living off your engineering salary as she pursues some “career” in creative writing, she will be unable to step up to the plate and help the family.  She will invariably prove to be a liability, both financial and legal.
	  
	  Her Major – Related to being independent, you want to find out how mature, adult, and realistic she is.  What she declared as a major is very telling.  If she’s majoring in accounting, engineering, or getting her 2-year certification in welding, then that is a mature, responsible, adult woman who lives in the real world and is aware of the financial demands of independence.  If she is 31, pursuing her third master’s in “Social Work” with an undergrad in “Literature,” not only is she still a child, mentally incapable of marriage, she is a financial risk never capable of producing the wealth necessary to support herself.
	  
	   
	  
	  Her Politics -  Specifically, what role does she see the government playing in your lives?  If it’s to be the provider of basic universal goods, legal systems, and defense, then fine.  But if she believes the state should be the back-up provider for her and the children, then your role as a father and a husband is diminished and your authority over your own family compromised.  Many young, modern day women prefer the financial security of a government check over that of a flesh and blood husband in that the government requires nothing of them in return and holds them to no standards.  This relegates you to just a “social companion” and maybe a “sperm donor” to sire her children.  You will not be the father or husband in this relationship.  Just imagine being married to Sandra Fluke.
	  
	   
	  
	  Problems with Sex and Intimacy -  Women who do not like sex have something wrong with them.  Something so wrong your primary concern should not be a sexless marriage, but what deeper, darker,  more sinister underlying psychological problems she has.  Women who have issues with sex are more likely to use it as a weapon or currency to extract resources from you.  They will find anything sexual or physical “degrading” and berate you as “shallow” for having natural male tendencies.  Also, women who dislike sex are more likely to claim sexual abuse.   If the thought of a sexless marriage doesn’t send you running, then trumped-up sexual abuse charges should.
	  
	   
	  
	  Super Religious – Super religious women are not super religious because they believe in Jesus or anything as noble as that.  They are super religious because they have screwed up in the past or are too weak to face reality and need some kind of psychological rationale to explain their failings.  In other words, they abuse the religion for their own psychological purposes and really couldn’t care less about Jesus.  Religion also serves as the always available trump card allowing women to cite religion as a reason to do, or not do things.  If they attend church that’s one thing.  If they start citing their religion as a reason they can’t kiss you or why you can’t date, don’t convert.  Run.
	  
	   
	  
	  Where Is Daddy? – The best women I’ve ever dated all had one thing in common – they knew who their daddy was, dad was still around, and dad was still married to mom.  The worst women I ever dated did not know their fathers and were raised by their mothers.  Ask where daddy is and see if you can meet him.
	  
	   
	  
	  Outsourcing the Children – Women who want to raise families and be a good wife want to raise families and be a good wife.  That means either they or the father stays at home and actually RAISES THE CHILDREN.   A woman who has no problem outsourcing their children to either pre-school, day care, or a nanny (as she is primarily concerned with returning to work) lacks the nurturing and caring instincts of a good wife and a mother.  Additionally, it shows you she doesn’t view other human beings (i.e.-her children) as sentient individuals that need care.  She views them as consumer items that are to be consumed or purchased for consumption or status (think a luxury SUV).  This means the child (and most likely the husband) are nothing more than “things” to have, not things to fall in love with.  This is NOT to say women shouldn’t work and should stay at home (as sometimes the father is best suited for child rearing).  This IS to say a quality woman will at least ask the question,
	  
	   
	  
	  “Well, who is going to stay at home and take care of the children?”
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4/2/178/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} #2 Be “The Most Interesting Man in the World”
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4/2/186/2/1:127%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} He is educated.  Maybe not necessarily degreed, but he is able to carry on intelligent conversation, if not be the focal point of the conversation himself.  He is also interesting, meaning different.  He doesn’t parrot what everybody else says, he doesn’t aim to belong.  He doesn’t care.  He does his own thing, has his own hobbies, and is living his life as he sees fit.  He is mature, he is a man.  He is not some fratboydouche with his hat on backwards saying, “hawt.”  Though he certainly doesn’t  submit himself to any woman, he is diplomatic, debonair, and charming to all women making sure to pay attention to them.  He has a well-developed sense of humor, not slap stick, but dry and clever, vital to making the life of a woman much more rich and enjoyable.   Finally he is talented.  He can tango, he can fix a motorcycle, he can read Arabic.  He can do at least one thing nobody else in the world can, but most likely, more.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4/2/190/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} So how do you become “The Most Interesting Man in the World?”  By improving every aspect of your life.
	  
	   
	  
	  This means you have to develop a skill or a trade.  This means you have to develop hobbies and interests that are not common, but still unique and interesting to you.  This means you have to consider others and how you interact with them.  It also means you must polish yourself, your actions, and your demeanor.  You need to become well-read, well-informed and knowledgeable.  And hardest of all you must develop charm and a devastating sense of humor that will turn your future wife’s knees to rubber.  When you walk into the room you want to be the most interesting man in the joint, not to make all the other women insanely jealous of your wife, but your wife insanely proud of you.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4/2/202/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} #3 Stay in Physical Shape
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4/2/210/2/1:354%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} if you are going to demand your wife stays in physical shape, you owe it to her to do the same. 
	  
	  
	  This means diet and daily exercise are MANDATORY regimens  of the husband.  Much as running is exhausting and boring, you must do it.  As mind-numbing as lifting weights is, you must do it.  And though you would love nothing more than to pig out on an all you can eat buffet of Mexican food, you can’t.  You need to be physically strong, physically fit, in shape and sexy.  Your other option is to let yourself go, which will result in her letting herself go, and the sexless marriage that is guaranteed to ensue.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4/2/216/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} #4 Keep Your Nose Clean
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4/2/228/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} You owe it to your future wife to keep your nose clean.  This doesn’t mean you go to church and never have sex, but you make damn sure you don’t bring any illegitimate children into this world.  This means you make sure the woman you marry is the “one and only” and not the first in a series.  This also means you don’t end up in jail, you don’t file for bankruptcy, and other basic things.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4/2/244/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} #5 Be a Male Role Model
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4/2/248/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The majority of society’s problems you will find stem from the lack of fathers.  This has been a direct consequence of feminism trying to eliminate the distinction between “fathers” and “mothers,” and worse, marginalizing the role fathers play in the upbringing of children as “unnecessary.”
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4/2/252/2/1:122%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} This is no more apparent than in the black community.  With 70% of births being outside of wedlock, the majority of which results in an absent father, there is no paternal disciplinarian to enforce rules, obedience, but more importantly, a moral code.  And while the state may come in and supplant the father in terms of his financial role, the state cannot come in and replace him in terms of his mentoring and leadership role.  The results are obvious.  Young black males (as well as females), without a father figure, commit more crime, perform worse academically, and suffer lesser lives because of it.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, /#book_id=790&bookpos=epubcfi%28/24/2/4/2/256/2/1:89%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Without a father your children are going to go into the real world without knowing how to deal with ½ of society - men.  Your daughters will have a heavily skewed biased towards their own self-importance, but worse a dangerously naïve understanding of men, men’s sexual nature, and the risks those pose.  Your boys will suffer as well.  With no man to teach them the harsh realities of life such as competition, independence, self-reliance, self-control, and work ethic, boys will grow up woefully unprepared for the real world.  Not just in terms of work ethic and skills, but they will have no clue how to interact and deal with women.  Their lives will be failures, both financial and romantic, but worse they won’t know why.
- Related: ((644c09ca-4564-421f-b34c-e910b6808f1e))