tags:: [[Computational Thinking; Introduction to Programming; Functional Abstraction; Data Abstraction; Substitution Model; Environment Model; Interpreter; Metacircular Evaluator; Register Machine; Cmpiler; JavaScript]]
isbn:: NA
date:: 2022
publisher:: MIT Press
language:: NA
authors:: [[Harold Abelson;Gerald Jay Sussman;Martin Henz;Tobias Wrigstad;]], [[Gerald Sussman]], [[Martin Henz]], [[Tobias Wrigstad]]
format:: [epub](/home/boss/Vaults/gocryptfs1/Calibre/Calibre-Library/Harold Abelson;Gerald Jay Sussman;Martin Henz;Tobias Wrigstad;/Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs_ JavaScript Edition (1976)/Structure and Interpretation of Computer P - Harold Abelson;Gerald Jay Sussman;Martin H.epub)

- [[Synopsis]]
	- A new version of the classic and widely used text adapted for the JavaScript programming language.
- [Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs: JavaScript Edition](calibre://show-book/Calibre-Library/1976)  {{renderer calibreViewer, special, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1976&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book}} {{renderer calibreHighlight, false, 2000, http://localhost:3296, Calibre-Library, 1976, epub}}
  lastsync:: Sun Aug 11 2024 10:30:27 GMT+0100 (British Summer Time)
	- # Intro
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1976&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/2/2/2/4/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Foreword
		  collapsed:: true
			- Universal function, and a universal data structure
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1976&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/2/6/2[f2-para-0002]:57%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Whether that one data structure is “universal”: can it conveniently fulfill the roles of those 10 more specialized data structures?
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1976&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/2/8/2[f2-para-0003]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} For that matter, we can also ask: do we really need 100 functions? Is there a single universal function that can fulfill the roles of all those other functions?
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1976&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/2/10/2[f2-para-0004]:415%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} One such data structure (the tagged-list representation of expressions and statements, paired with environments that associate names with values) and one such universal function (apply) are described in Chapter 4 of this book. So maybe we need only one function and one data structure.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1976&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/2/14/2[f2-para-0006]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} One thing the human mind seems to do well is to name things; we have powerful associative memories. Given a name, we can quickly recall some associated thing to mind.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1976&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/2/22/2[f2-para-0010]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} So while in principle we could get by with just one universal function, we prefer to modularize our code, to give names to the various pieces, and to mention the names of function descriptions rather than constantly feeding the descriptions themselves to the universal function.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1976&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/2/24/2[f2-para-0011]:55%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} a good programmer “does not just write programs. A good programmer builds a working vocabulary.” As we design and define more and more parts of our programs, we give names to those parts, and the result is that we have a richer language in which to write the rest.
			  
			  But we also find it natural to draw distinctions among data structures, and to give them names.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1976&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/2/36/2[f2-para-0017]:68%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} a computation (code plus some associated data)
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1976&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/2/38/2[f2-para-0018]:91%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Maybe the sweet spot is something more like 40 functions general enough to operate usefully on a universal data structure such as lists, but also 10 sets of 6 functions each that are relevant when we take one of 10 specialized views of that universal data structure. This is manageable if we give good names to these functions and specialized views.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1976&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/2/40/2[f2-para-0019]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} As you read this book, please pay attention not only to the programming language constructs and how they are used, but also to the names given to functions and variables and data structures. They are not all as short and vivid as the names Iverson chose for his APL functions, but they have been chosen in a deliberate and systematic way to enhance your understanding of the overall program structure.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1976&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/2/2/2/4/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Foreword to Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs, 1984
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1976&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/2/4/2[f3-para-0001]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Educators, generals, dieticians, psychologists, and parents program. Armies, students, and some societies are programmed. An assault on large problems employs a succession of programs, most of which spring into existence en route.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1976&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/2/6/2[f3-para-0002]:66%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} three foci of phenomena: the human mind, collections of computer programs, and the computer
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1976&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/2/6/2[f3-para-0002]:159%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Every computer program is a model, hatched in the mind, of a real or mental process. These processes, arising from human experience and thought, are huge in number, intricate in detail, and at any time only partially understood
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1976&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/2/6/2[f3-para-0002]:468%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Thus even though our programs are carefully handcrafted discrete collections of symbols, mosaics of interlocking functions, they continually evolve: we change them as our perception of the model deepens, enlarges, generalizes until the model ultimately attains a metastable place within still another model with which we struggle. The source of the exhilaration associated with computer programming is the continual unfolding within the mind and on the computer of mechanisms expressed as programs and the explosion of perception they generate.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1976&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/2/8/2[f3-para-0003]:472%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Unfortunately, as programs get large and complicated, as they almost always do, the adequacy, consistency, and correctness of the specifications themselves become open to doubt, so that complete formal arguments of correctness seldom accompany large programs. Since large programs grow from small ones, it is crucial that we develop an arsenal of standard program structures of whose correctness we have become sure—we call them idioms—and learn to combine them into larger structures using organizational techniques of proven value.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1976&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/2/14/2[f3-para-0006]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Among the programs we write, some (but never enough) perform a precise mathematical function such as sorting or finding the maximum of a sequence of numbers, determining primality, or finding the square root. We call such programs algorithms, and a great deal is known of their optimal behavior, particularly with respect to the two important parameters of execution time and data storage requirements.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1976&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/2/14/2[f3-para-0006]:403%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} A programmer should acquire good algorithms and idioms. Even though some programs resist precise specifications, it is the responsibility of the programmer to estimate, and always to attempt to improve, their performance.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1976&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4/2/2/2/4/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Preface
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1976&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4/2/4/2[f4-para-0001]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The book Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs (SICP) introduces the reader to central ideas of computation by establishing a series of mental models for computation.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1976&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4/2/4/2[f4-para-0001]:130%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Chapters 1–3 cover programming concepts that are common to all modern high-level programming languages.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1976&bookpos=epubcfi%28/22/2/4/2/2/2/4/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Prefaces to Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs, 1996 & 1984
		  collapsed:: true
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1976&bookpos=epubcfi%28/22/2/4/2/6/6/2[f5-para-0009]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} “The Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs” is the entry-level subject in computer science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. It is required of all students at MIT who major in electrical engineering or in computer science, as one-fourth of the “common core curriculum,” which also includes two subjects on circuits and linear systems and a subject on the design of digital systems.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1976&bookpos=epubcfi%28/22/2/4/2/6/8/2[f5-para-0010]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Our design of this introductory computer-science subject reflects two major concerns.
				- First, we want to establish the idea that a computer language is not just a way of getting a computer to perform operations but rather that it is a novel formal medium for expressing ideas about methodology. Thus, programs must be written for people to read, and only incidentally for machines to execute.
				- Second, we believe that the essential material to be addressed by a subject at this level is not the syntax of particular programming-language constructs, nor clever algorithms for computing particular functions efficiently, nor even the mathematical analysis of algorithms and the foundations of computing, but rather the techniques used to control the intellectual complexity of large software systems.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1976&bookpos=epubcfi%28/22/2/4/2/6/14/2[f5-para-0013]:158%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The computer revolution is a revolution in the way we think and in the way we express what we think. The essence of this change is the emergence of what might best be called procedural epistemology—the study of the structure of knowledge from an imperative point of view, as opposed to the more declarative point of view taken by classical mathematical subjects. Mathematics provides a framework for dealing precisely with notions of “what is.” Computation provides a framework for dealing precisely with notions of “how to.”
	- # {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1976&bookpos=epubcfi%28/28/2/4/2/2/2/4/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} 1) Building Abstractions with Functions
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1976&bookpos=epubcfi%28/28/2/4/2/6/2[c1-para-0002]:38%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Computational processes are abstract beings that inhabit computers. As they evolve, processes manipulate other abstract things called data. The evolution of a process is directed by a pattern of rules called a program. People create programs to direct processes.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1976&bookpos=epubcfi%28/28/2/4/2/8/2[c1-para-0003]:325%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The programs we use to conjure processes are like a sorcerer's spells. They are carefully composed from symbolic expressions in arcane and esoteric programming languages that prescribe the tasks we want our processes to perform.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1976&bookpos=epubcfi%28/28/2/4/2/14/2[c1-para-0006]:386%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Well-designed computational systems, like well-designed automobiles or nuclear reactors, are designed in a modular manner, so that the parts can be constructed, replaced, and debugged separately.
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1976&bookpos=epubcfi%28/28/2/4/2/16/4/4/4/2/2[c1-sec-0004]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Programming in JavaScript
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1976&bookpos=epubcfi%28/28/2/4/2/16/4/4/4/6/2[c1-para-0008]:112%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} A JavaScript interpreter is a machine that carries out processes described in the JavaScript language.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1976&bookpos=epubcfi%28/28/2/4/2/16/4/4/4/8/2[c1-para-0009]:107%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} both Java and JavaScript use the block structure of the language C
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1976&bookpos=epubcfi%28/28/2/4/2/16/4/4/4/8/2[c1-para-0009]:175%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} In contrast with Java and C, which usually employ compilation to lowerlevel languages, JavaScript programs were initially interpreted by web browsers
		- ## {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1976&bookpos=epubcfi%28/28/2/4/2/16/6/2/4/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} 1.1) The Elements of Programming
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1976&bookpos=epubcfi%28/28/2/4/2/16/6/4/2[c1-para-0012]:230%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} we should pay particular attention to the means that the language provides for combining simple ideas to form more complex ideas
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1976&bookpos=epubcfi%28/28/2/4/2/16/6/4/2[c1-para-0012]:360%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Every powerful language has three mechanisms for accomplishing this:
				- **primitive expressions**, which represent the simplest entities the language is concerned with,
				- **means of combination**, by which compound elements are built from simpler ones, and
				- **means of abstraction**, by which compound elements can be named and manipulated as units.
			- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1976&bookpos=epubcfi%28/28/2/4/2/16/6/8/2[c1-para-0016]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} In programming, we deal with two kinds of elements: functions and data. (Later we will discover that they are really not so distinct.) Informally, data is “stuff” that we want to manipulate, and functions are descriptions of the rules for manipulating the data. Thus, any powerful programming language should be able to describe primitive data and primitive functions and should have methods for combining and abstracting functions and data.
			- ### {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1976&bookpos=epubcfi%28/28/2/4/2/16/6/12/2/4/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} 1.1.1) Expressions
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1976&bookpos=epubcfi%28/28/2/4/2/16/6/12/4/2[c1-para-0018]:132%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} You type a statement, and the interpreter responds by displaying the result of its evaluating that statement.
				- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1976&bookpos=epubcfi%28/28/2/4/2/16/6/12/6/2[c1-para-0019]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} One kind of statement you might type is an expression statement, which consists of an expression followed by a semicolon.
				- One kind of primitive expression is a number.
					- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1976&bookpos=epubcfi%28/28/2/4/2/16/6/12/14/2[c1-para-0023]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Expressions representing numbers may be combined with operators (such as + or *) to form a compound expression that represents the application of a corresponding primitive function to those numbers. For example,
						- ```
						  137 + 349;
						  486
						  ```
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1976&bookpos=epubcfi%28/28/2/4/2/16/6/12/44/2[c1-para-0034]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Expressions such as these, which contain other expressions as components, are called combinations. Combinations that are formed by an operator symbol in the middle, and operand expressions to the left and right of it, are called operator combinations. The value of an operator combination is obtained by applying the function specified by the operator to the arguments that are the values of the operands.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1976&bookpos=epubcfi%28/28/2/4/2/16/6/12/46/2[c1-para-0035]:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The convention of placing the operator between the operands is known as infix notation.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1976&bookpos=epubcfi%28/28/2/4/2/16/6/12/46/2[c1-para-0035]:181%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} As in mathematics, operator combinations can be nested, that is, they can have operands that themselves are operator combinations:
		- (3 * 5) + (10 - 6);
		  
		  19
		- As usual, parentheses are used to group operator combinations in order to avoid ambiguities.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1976&bookpos=epubcfi%28/28/2/4/2/16/6/12/52/2[c1-para-0038]:169%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} multiplication and division bind more strongly than addition and subtraction. For example,
		- 3 * 5 + 10 / 2;
		  
		  stands for
		  
		  (3 * 5) + (10 / 2);
		  
		  We say that * and / have higher precedence than + and -.
	- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1976&bookpos=epubcfi%28/28/2/4/2/16/6/12/60/2[c1-para-0042]:36%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Sequences of additions and subtractions are read from left to right, as are sequences of multiplications and divisions.
		- Thus,
		  
		  1 - 5 / 2 * 4 + 3;
		  
		  stands for
		  
		  (1 - ((5 / 2) * 4)) + 3;
		  
		  We say that the operators +, -, * and / are left-associative.