tags:: [[Business & Economics]], [[History]], [[Economic History]], [[Politics]], [[Germany]], [[Social History]], [[Europe]]
isbn:: 9781586489953
date:: 2010
publisher:: Hachette UK
language:: NA
authors:: [[Adam Fergusson]]
format:: [epub](/home/boss/Vaults/gocryptfs1/Calibre/Calibre-Library/Adam Fergusson/When Money Dies_ The Nightmare of Deficit Spending, Devaluation, and Hyperinflation in Weimar G (1739)/When Money Dies_ The Nightmare of Deficit - Adam Fergusson.epub)

- [[Synopsis]]
	- <p><strong><em>When Money Dies</em> is the classic history of what happens when a nation's currency depreciates beyond recovery.</strong>  </p>
	  <p>In 1923, with its currency effectively worthless (the exchange rate in December of that year was one dollar to 4,200,000,000,000 marks), the German republic was all but reduced to a barter economy. Expensive cigars, artworks, and jewels were routinely exchanged for staples such as bread; a cinema ticket could be bought for a lump of coal; and a bottle of paraffin for a silk shirt. People watched helplessly as their life savings disappeared and their loved ones starved. Germany's finances descended into chaos, with severe social unrest in its wake.  </p>
	  <p>Money may no longer be physically printed and distributed in the voluminous quantities of 1923. However, "quantitative easing," that modern euphemism for surreptitious deficit financing in an electronic era, can no less become an assault on monetary discipline. Whatever the reason for a country's deficit -- necessity or profligacy, unwillingness to tax or blindness to expenditure -- it is beguiling to suppose that if the day of reckoning is postponed economic recovery will come in time to prevent higher unemployment or deeper recession. What if it does not? Germany in 1923 provides a vivid, compelling, sobering moral tale.  </p>
	  <p>**</p>
- [When Money Dies: The Nightmare of Deficit Spending, Devaluation, and Hyperinflation in Weimar Germany book](calibre://show-book/Calibre-Library/1739)  {{renderer calibreViewer, special, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book}} {{renderer calibreHighlight, false, 2000, http://localhost:3296, Calibre-Library, 1739, epub}}
  lastsync:: Sun Aug 11 2024 00:30:24 GMT+0100 (British Summer Time)
	- # {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/14/2/4/4/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Note to the 2010 edition
	  collapsed:: true
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/14/2/4/12/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Money may no longer be physically printed and distributed in the voluminous quantities of 1923. However, ‘quantitative easing’, that modern euphemism for surreptitious deficit financing in an electronic era, can no less become an assault on monetary discipline.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/14/2/4/12/1:750%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} A country’s budget can indeed be balanced in that way, but at the cost, to whatever degree, of its citizens’ savings and pensions, their confidence and trust, their morals and their morale.
		  [by printing more money]
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/14/2/4/14/1:59%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} the challenging post-’oil shock’ conditions of the 1970s which inspired this book in the first place. Then there were rocketing prices and wages, strikes and closures, unemployment, helplessness and hopelessness. In 1975, US inflation stood at 8%; Britain’s was rising from 10 to 27% (and was still at 18% in 1981 when Margaret Thatcher and Geoffrey Howe brought in the painful disciplines that defeated it); Japan’s rose to 30%.
	- # {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/4/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Prologue
	  collapsed:: true
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/12/1:104%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} how can a fair account of the German inflation be given outside the context of political subversion by Nationalists and by Communists, or the turmoil in the Army, or the quarrel with France, or the problem of war reparations, or the parallel hyperinflations in Austria and Hungary?
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/18/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} This book presents a few new facts, but many forgotten facts and many hitherto unpublished opinions [details the sources used]
		  collapsed:: true
			- - most usefully of those who could observe events objectively because their purses, health and security were unaffected by what they were witnessing. The most bountiful store of such material is the records of the British Foreign Office, supplied originally by the embassy in Berlin where Lord D’Abernon prosecuted in those years one of the most successful ambassadorships of the age. His information was amply augmented by the consular service in every important city in Germany, as by reports from individual members of the Allied commissions concerned with reparations or disarmament. The documents in the Public Record Office, apart from being among the more accessible, are also probably the most important source available, not only because the British Embassy through D’Abernon was in exceptionally close touch at all times with Germany’s senior politicians, but because the withdrawal of the United States presence at the start of 1923, and the almost complete interruption of any communication between Berlin and Paris earlier still, rendered sporadic or superficial what might have been information of comparable value. Supplemented by contemporary German material, I have not hesitated to draw as fully as seemed justified on those papers.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/22/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} I have not, however, dared to draw hard and fast conclusions about humanity and inflation on the basis of what I have written here: the facts speak very well for themselves. Still less have I expounded any economic lessons or indulged in theoretical explanations of economic phenomena. This is emphatically not an economic study. Yet inflation is about money as well as people, and it would be impossible to tell the tale without introducing figures, sometimes vast figures, again and again. Vast figures were what the people of central Europe were assailed by and bludgeoned with for years on end until they could bear no more. The value of the mark in 1922 and 1923 was in everyone’s mind; but who could comprehend a figure followed by a dozen ciphers?
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/32/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} In one other matter the reader must act independently. It has been necessary frequently to give the 1920s’ sterling or dollar equivalents of the mark sums involved, in order to show the scale of the mark’s depreciation. The continuing process of inflation in all western countries makes conversion to present-day values an unrewarding occupation.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/16/2/4/36/1:84%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} if you wish to destroy a nation you must first corrupt its currency. Thus must sound money be the first bastion of a society’s defence.
	- # {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/4/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} 1: Gold for Iron
	  collapsed:: true
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/6/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Just before the First World War in 1913, the German mark, the British shilling, the French franc, and the Italian lira were all worth about the same, and four or five of any were worth about a dollar.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/6/2:200%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} At the end of 1923, it would have been possible to exchange a shilling, a franc or a lira for up to 1,000,000,000,000 marks
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/8/1:33%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} In the war years, 1914-1918, its foreign exchange value halved, and by August 1919 it had halved again. In early 1920, however, although the cost of living had risen less than nine times since 1914, the mark had only one-fortieth of its overseas purchasing power left. There followed twelve months of nervous fluctuation, but then the mark sped downwards with gathering momentum
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/8/1:631%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Pursuing the money of Austria and Hungary into the abyss, it crashed there more heavily than either.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/10/1:295%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The death of the mark in November 1923 came as a merciful release, for the events of the preceding eight months had ensured that the old mark could never recover. They ensured, too, that Germany would have to undergo appalling rigours of financial reconstruction such as might otherwise have been escaped. The re-establishment of monetary sanity, which bankrupted thousands, robbed millions of their livelihoods, and killed the hopes of millions more, indirectly exacted a more terrible price which the whole world had to pay.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/12/1:515%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The question to be asked - the danger to be recognised - is how inflation, however caused, affects a nation: its government, its people, its officials, and its society.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/12/1:850%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} the process of collapse of the recognised, traditional, trusted medium of exchange, the currency by which all values are measured, by which social status is guaranteed, upon which security depends, and in which the fruits of labour are stored, unleashes such greed, violence, unhappiness, and hatred, largely bred from fear, as no society can survive uncrippled and unchanged.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/14/1:927%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} It was unimaginable in 1921 that 1922 could hold any more terrors. They came, sure enough, and were in due course eclipsed, and more than eclipsed, with the turn of the following year.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/16/1:104%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} In the winter of 1918-1919 all three underwent political revolutions, following the deprivations of wartime and crushing military defeat
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/26/1:14%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} it was the natural reaction of most Germans, or Austrians, or Hungarians - indeed, as for any victims of inflation - to assume not so much that their money was falling in value as that the goods which it bought were becoming more expensive in absolute terms; not that their currency was depreciating, but - especially in the beginning - that other currencies were unfairly rising, so pushing up the price of every necessity of life.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/28/1:167%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} ‘We used to say “The dollar is going up again”, while in reality the dollar remained stable but our mark was falling. But, you see, we could hardly say our mark was falling since in figures it was constantly going up - and so were the prices - and this was much more visible than the realisation that the value of our money was going down
		  > It would be useful to maintain a dashboard of currency graphs and other assets to check on a monthly basis
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/30/1:212%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Most of them clung to the mark, the currency they knew and believed in, long after the eleventh hour had come round for the umpteenth time.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/30/1:656%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Inflation, already in its fourth year when revolution overthrew the old regime, added a new, overwhelming uncertainty to the many uncertainties that attended the birth of the Weimar Republic.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/34/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Although the German revolution originated as a military mutiny against the bungling of the Army’s leaders, and was bent upon getting rid of the officer caste who had brought military disaster upon the country, it had distinguishable economic origins as well
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/38/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The myth of the Dolchstoss, the stab in the back of the Army by the craven politicians and treacherous intellectuals behind the lines, was thereafter to be cultivated to the point when democratic political evolution was poisoned at its heart. This was a heavy burden for the new civilian government to bear, thrown unprepared and with an untried constitution into the deep end of democracy. Finding itself accepting the responsibility for a devastating defeat, and weak in human and material resources, it was miserably equipped to set to rights the financial and fiscal legacy of the purely and arrogantly militarist establishment which had run the war practically to the exclusion of politicians and economists.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/40/1:350%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} True, as the Armistice commission completed its task, Berlin was in revolt, loyal troops going over hourly to the revolutionaries.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/42/1:591%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} the Bolsheviks, infiltrating and subverting, seemed to be taking over. There were clashes between Leftist forces and Army units at Aachen, Cologne, Essen and many other places. In Braunschweig a Soldiers’ and Workers’ Council, greeting a squadron of hussars returning from the front, was ridden down for its pains.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/44/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The critical point in the Army’s fortunes came a few hours before the Armistice was signed. The Spartakists - the German Bolsheviks who were to become the German Communist Party - were already massing in the streets of Berlin. The civilian power (in the person of President Ebert), already fearing that its democratic hours were numbered, struck a bargain with the German High Command (in the person of General Gröner) to co-operate in the suppression of Bolshevism, to restore order, and to maintain military discipline. It saved the Army: the Republican government, technically the revolutionary regime, instructed the Soldiers’ Councils to support their officers without reserve, and within three months the Weimar Assembly was meeting under military protection.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/46/1:230%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Although volunteer Free Corps were used both to protect the Weimar meeting and for the suppression of the Spartakist risings in March, by May 1919 the Army proper had been entirely reorganised, with 400,000 men trained in arms.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/48/1:602%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} when the war was over and recriminations began it genuinely did not seem to occur to the Supreme Command, who had kept the civilian government largely in the dark about the true war prospects throughout the summer of 1918, that the breakdown of the military machine - that complex synthesis of munitions, men and morale - stemmed as much from economic mismanagement as anything else.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/52/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The first stage of inflation took place under the auspices of one Karl Helfferich, State Secretary for Finance from 1915 to 1917.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/52/1:371%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} In August 1914 action was taken both to pay for the war and to protect the country’s gold reserves. The latter objective was achieved by the simple device of suspending the redemption of Reichsbank notes in gold. The former was contrived by setting up loan banks whose funds were to be provided simply by printing them.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/54/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Thus were the Government’s plans drawn up, wilfully and simply, for financing the war - not by taxation, but by borrowing; and with the printing press as the well to supply both the needs of the Government and the growing credit demand of private business.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/58/1:54%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Helfferich had actually announced to the Reichstag in March 1915 that the war was to be financed exclusively by borrowing - so that the small amount of tax revenue raised for the purpose, first with a war profits tax and a turnover tax, later with a coal and transport tax, was less than 8,000 million marks a year even in 1917. This amount covered neither the extra expenditure caused by inflation, nor even the interest burden on the war debt: so that war expenditures duly exceeded revenues, and the money in circulation increased in 1917 to five times what it had been in 1913.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/58/1:973%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Even without losing the war, Germany would have had a hard task after 1918 to straighten out her finances again.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/60/2/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Germany tried to meet the colossal costs of the war by an appeal to the self-sacrificing spirit of the people. ‘I gave gold for iron’ was the slogan for the surrender of gold ornaments and jewellery. ‘Invest in War Loan’ ran the appeal to the patriotic sense of duty of all classes. Issue after issue of War Loan transformed the greater part of German private fortunes into paper claims on the State. Our enemies, especially Britain, took another line. They met the cost of war with taxes aimed primarily at those industries and groups to whom the war spelled prosperity. Britain’s policy of taxation proved socially more equitable than Germany’s policy of War Loans which lost their value after the war was over.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/62/1:189%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Every German stock exchange was closed for the duration, so that the effect of Reichsbank policies on stocks and shares was unknown. Further, foreign exchange rates were not published, and only those in contact with neutral markets such as Amsterdam or Zurich could guess what was going on.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/62/1:480%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} It was never clear how much the steep rise in domestic prices was due to economy measures and war shortages rather than to inflation - and even the relevance of those prices was rendered dubious by the much higher black market rates.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/62/1:714%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Only when the war was over, with the veil of censorship lifted but the Allied blockade continuing, did it become clear to all with eyes to read that Germany had already met an economic disaster nearly as shattering as her military one.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/66/4/2/1:125%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} embusqués
		   man who avoids military conscription by obtaining a government job
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/66/4/2/1:516%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} they realised that their situation and that of their families would be hopeless after the war. Hence the dull, often dismal attitude of soldiers on furlough from the front during the latter years of the war.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/68/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} Even in the war years, in other words, inflation was taking its toll on national morale. ‘There must be some people to whom the war is useful,’ argued one of the young soldiers in All Quiet on the Western Front
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/68/4/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} It must be admitted generally now that the cause of the depreciation of our currency and of the purchasing power of the mark was neither the commercial balance during the war nor the estimate of our military situation abroad; but in the exploitation of our currency for the purpose of obtaining money for the Treasury, that is to say in a fictitious increase of our total income. In as much as the country issued milliards in the form of extraordinary levies, War Loans, Treasury bills, and so on, without withdrawing from circulation corresponding amounts in the shape of taxes, it created new paper income and wealth incessantly, while the real national wealth was steadily being diminished by the war.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/72/1:653%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The proclamation of the Republic was in part a holding operation against the Bolshevist tide.
		  [in 1918/1919?]
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/74/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} January 1919 saw the first elections to the Reichstag since 1912. Over 30 million voters (more than 80 per cent of those eligible) produced the coalition which was to face the peace terms presented by the Allies in June. The principal constituent was the new Democratic Party, and the Democrats were the main authors of the Weimar constitution which was completed in August.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/80/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The Treaty of Versailles separated Germany not just from her colonies but from one-seventh of her pre-war territory - north, south, east and west - as well as from a tenth of her population. Under its terms, Alsace-Lorraine was returned to France, and France was to occupy the Rhineland and to exploit the coal of the Saar for fifteen years, after which the Saar’s future was to be settled by plebiscite. A plebiscite, too, was to determine the future of Upper Silesia in the east.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/82/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The implications of these truncations for the German economy were of course enormous: and so were those of the requirement to reduce the German army to a quarter of its size, for it meant that over a quarter of a million more disbanded soldiers were to be thrown on the labour market. Work had to be found for them at any cost, or so it was calculated.
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/82/1:450%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} reparations - in money and in kind - to meet the Allies’ costs
		- {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/18/2/4/86/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} The state of the mark, meanwhile, had become the barometer both of international confidence in Germany and of Germany’s national despair. Before the war it had stood at 20 to the pound sterling. At the end of the war, in December 1918, it stood at 43. Before the terms of the Treaty of Versailles were accepted in June 1919, a pound would buy 60 marks. But when December came round again it would buy 185. Already the average annual war-time depreciation of about 20 per cent had come to resemble stability.
	- # {{renderer calibreViewer, yellow, http://localhost:3296/#book_id=1739&bookpos=epubcfi%28/20/2/4/4/2/1:0%29&fmt=epub&library_id=Calibre-Library&mode=read_book }} 2: Joyless Streets